   #StyleZeitgeist » Feed StyleZeitgeist » Comments Feed StyleZeitgeist »
   Op-Ed: It's Time for Governments to Regulate Fast Fashion Comments Feed
   JSON oEmbed (JSON) oEmbed (XML)

   Over the past twenty years fast fashion has spurred unbridled
   consumerism, with disastrous consequences for the environment and human
   rights. In this time period, companies like Sweden's H&M and Spain's
   Zara have gone from middle-size purveyors of inexpensive clothing to
   juggernauts that operate thousands of stores across the world. In the
   last ten years they have been joined by new entrants such as UK's
   BooHoo, America's Fashion Nova, and most notably the Chinese giant
   Shein, which has undergone explosive growth in the past few years. All
   efforts to stop them have failed. It is now time for governments to
   step in and regulate fast fashion the way it has regulated Big Tobacco
   and the automotive industry.

   By pumping out vast amounts of clothing in countries where labor laws
   are lightly regulated, fast fashion companies have become some of the
   worst offenders when it comes to sustainability and ethical labor
   practices. Shein is a particularly egregious example because its
   operations are centered in China, which allows it to keep its
   manufacturing practices completely opaque and away from the eyes of
   Western regulatory agencies.

   Meanwhile, on the consumer end, the amount of textile waste generated
   by the developed world has reached truly staggering amounts. According
   to the United States Environmental Protection Agency, in 2018 Americans
   discarded 17 million tons of textiles, most of which came in the form
   of trashed garments.

   Much hand-wringing has been done to lament this sad state of affairs,
   and much blame has been put on the companies themselves. Fast fashion
   firms have enabled the shift in consumer mentality that has turned
   clothes-shopping into an addictive form of entertainment, making
   disposability the norm. Some of the blame should also fall on fast
   fashion consumers who treat shopping as a competitive sport, buying and
   discarding clothes at a historically unprecedented rate. According to a
   2019 report by the UN Alliance for Sustainable Fashion, "The average
   consumer buys 60 percent more pieces of clothing than 15 years ago.
   Each item is only kept for half as long."

   To be sure, the rest of the fashion industry bears some of the blame,
   but fast fashion, with its ultra-low prices and ultra-fast product
   churn, has been particularly egregious in enabling irresponsible
   consumer behavior. According to a 2019 Business of Fashion / McKinsey
   report, "one in three young women in the UK consider clothes `old'
   after wearing them once or twice. One in seven consider it a fashion
   faux-pas to be photographed in an outfit twice."

   All this shopping has paid off handsomely for fast fashion giants. The
   revenue and valuations of these companies are staggering. Earlier this
   year, Shein recently raised $2 billion in a fresh round of financing.
   It is now considering going public, seeking a valuation of $90 billion.
   After only eight years in business, its annual revenue of $23 billion
   roughly matches that of H&M.

   The media and activists have long waged an unsuccessful campaign
   against fast fashion, and if there is one thing we have learned from
   this struggle is that asking businesses to reform and shaming consumers
   does not work. In response to accusations, fast fashion companies
   engage in greenwashing practices, such as opening recycling centers and
   touting their use of organic cotton. Their customers also don't seem to
   care. By all accounts Gen-Zers are very concerned about climate change
   and ethical consumption, but numerous surveys also show that they are
   the biggest consumers of fast fashion.

   That public pressure has failed to curb the rampant rise of fast
   fashion is unsurprising. Companies are driven by the logic of
   capitalism that requires forever chasing revenue increases and
   cost-cutting. And consumers are driven by self-interest, which means
   maximizing the value of their spending. Fast fashion is especially
   well-positioned to do both by offering vast volumes of merchandise
   cheaply and by spurring customer demand through pervasive and
   persuasive marketing. Shein has been particularly savvy in employing
   armies of social media influencers and bots to whip up demand. YouTube
   and TikTok are flooded with videos of Shein hauls.

   If companies and consumers are not willing to reform, it falls on
   governments to step in and regulate this segment of the apparel
   industry. Some efforts have been made, such as the recent EU initiative
   that prevents companies from destroying clothing. But this is not
   enough. Fast fashion should be ultimately seen as a health and
   environmental hazard and regulated as such. It is time the governments,
   led by the developed world, do the following; tax fast fashion, demand
   and aggressively enforce greater business transparency, introduce
   manufacturing standards, and wage a public campaign about the dangers
   of fast fashion.

   Taxation should be used at all levels, from putting a higher VAT tax on
   fast fashion garments, the way it's been done for cigarettes, to taxing
   practices that contribute to global warming and pollution. Developed
   economic zones such as the US and the EU should start putting up
   greater tariff barriers and closing the existing loopholes that
   direct-to-consumer players like Shein take advantage of. Additionally,
   regulatory bodies should establish the framework of ethical labor
   practices that applies worldwide and not just in the West, and demand
   that the developing world manufacturers abide by these rules for fear
   of economic and political retaliation. Inspections of manufacturing
   sights should be done by international regulatory agencies and not be
   left up to the companies themselves, and fines for violations should be
   hefty.

   We also need a post-"Unsafe at Any Speed Moment," for the apparel
   industry. Just like Ralph Nader's blockbuster led to the US Congress to
   establish car safety standards, we need to establish durability
   standards for clothing. The European Union has already proposed such
   legislation, and the US should follow. Lastly, governments should
   heavily regulate, if not outright ban, fast fashion marketing, and also
   institute a campaign that educates the public on the dangers of fast
   fashion.

   The fight against Big Tobacco can provide much of the blueprint.
   Tobacco producers have been beaten through government intervention,
   which over time has also shifted cultural norms. In America, in 1964
   the Surgeon General officially recognized tobacco's health risks. A
   year later Congress required health warnings to be displayed on
   cigarette packs. In 1988 smoking was banned on most US flights. At the
   same time the US government sued the tobacco companies, taxed
   cigarettes heavily, and banned tobacco ads. It took decades, but the
   result is that smoking is now both expensive and uncool. It is time the
   governments across the world applied the same level of pressure to fast
   fashion.

   To be sure, this will be an uphill battle, because it will require
   reeducating the consumer not to act in one's own self-interest. Unlike
   tobacco, fast fashion does not pose self-evident health risks to
   consumers, and while we may feel sympathy for the children toiling in
   third world countries, these are not our children. It will be hard to
   shift society's perception about fast fashion and to wean the consumer
   off the habit of buying mountains of cheap clothes. But we are learning
   that this battle cannot be won by publishing articles targeting fast
   fashion companies or by showing videos of landfills and collapsed
   factory buildings in far away places. It can only be won at the policy
   level.
