   #StyleZeitgeist » Feed StyleZeitgeist » Comments Feed JSON oEmbed
   (JSON) oEmbed (XML)

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5N88NH9V

   Skip to content
   Facebook page opens in new windowInstagram page opens in new window
   Search:
   ____________________
   Go!
   $0.00

   View CartCheckout
     * No products in the cart.

   Subtotal: $0.00

   View CartCheckout

   StyleZeitgeist
   Counterculture - Fashion and Culture Magazine
   StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist
     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store
     * Academy

     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store
     * Academy

StyleZeitgeist Volume 2 (Digital)

   You can order our second volume, featuring articles on PJ Harvey, Ann
   Demeulemeester, Deborah Turbeville, and more, by clicking on the link
   below. Here you'll also find pictures of the actual magazine.
   In our flagship article, Eugene Rabkin goes to England and Belgium to
   report on the intimate friendship and creative exchange between the
   singer PJ Harvey and the designer Ann Demeulemeester and her husband,
   the photographer Patrick Robyn. With six full-page exclusive
   photographs of PJ Harvey by Patrick Robyn, shot at Demeulemeester's
   studio in Antwerp.
   In our men's editorial, we pay homage to the iconic performance piece,
   I Like America and America Likes Me, by the German artist Joseph Beuys.
   Shot in Brooklyn by Jeff P. Elstone II with clothes by Ann
   Demeulemeester, Paul Harnden, Geoffrey B. Small, Forme d'Expression,
   Lost & Found, and Guidi.
   We travel to Iceland to profile Sruli Recht, the designer who crafts
   his otherworldly creations in Reykjavik, Iceland out of everything he
   can get his hands on, from shark hides to black diamonds.
   In this women's editorial, photographer Erik Madigan Heck dwells on the
   color blue in nature and clothing. Shot in New York City and Iceland
   with clothes by Haider Ackermann, Jean Paul Gaultier, A.F. Vandevorst,
   and Rodarte, among others.
   Cintra Wilson, our irreverent senior editor, gets together with Valerie
   Steele, the most revered fashion scholar and the director of the Museum
   of Fashion at FIT, to talk about the state of contemporary fashion and
   Daphne Guinness.
   Eugene Rabkin talks to Deborah Turbeville, one of the luminaries of
   contemporary photography, about the influence of literature on her work
   and her unique aesthetic. With exclusive photography of Turbeville's
   archives and her New York City apartment by Turbeville's art director
   Tuomas Korpijaakko.

StyleZeitgeist Volume 2 (Digital)

   $10.00

   StyleZeitgeist Print Volume 2, originally published Spring 2012

   Eugene Rabkin travels to P.J. Harvey's hometown, and to Ann
   Demeulemeester and Patrick Robyn's house for an extensive feature on
   their friendship. Exclusive (and for the first time published) photos
   of P.J. Harvey by Patrick Robyn wearing Ann Demeulemeester costumes for
   her Let England Shake tour.

   Eugene also visits the home of the iconic photographer Deborah
   Turbeville, and they speak about her work and Russian literature.
   Featuring exclusive photos of Turbeville's home archive.

   To finish his trio of profiles, Eugene also travels to Iceland to speak
   to the designer Sruli Recht about his mind-bending work.

   In an editorial photo shoot, featuring the work of Geoffrey B. Small,
   Paul Harnden, and others, we recreate the iconic Joseph Beuys
   performance piece, I like America and America Likes Me.

   Cintra Wilson profiles fashion academic par excellent, the director of
   the FIT museum, Valerie Steele.

   And much more.


   StyleZeitgeist Volume 2 (Digital) quantity (BUTTON) £ 1___ (BUTTON) ¢
   (63044) Add to cart
   Category: Magazine Tag: stylezeitgeist volume two
   sharing is caring
   Pin itShare on Pinterest Share on WhatsAppShare on WhatsApp Share on
   FacebookShare on Facebook
     * Description

Description

   StyleZeitgeist Print Volume 2, originally published Spring 2012

   Eugene Rabkin travels to P.J. Harvey's hometown, and to Ann
   Demeulemeester and Patrick Robyn's house for an extensive feature on
   their friendship. Exclusive (and for the first time published) photos
   of P.J. Harvey by Patrick Robyn wearing Ann Demeulemeester costumes for
   her Let England Shake tour.

   Eugene also visits the home of the iconic photographer Deborah
   Turbeville, and they speak about her work and Russian literature.
   Featuring exclusive photos of Turbeville's home archive.

   To finish his trio of profiles, Eugene also travels to Iceland to speak
   to the designer Sruli Recht about his mind-bending work.

   In an editorial photo shoot, featuring the work of Geoffrey B. Small,
   Paul Harnden, and others, we recreate the iconic Joseph Beuys
   performance piece, I like America and America Likes Me.

   Cintra Wilson profiles fashion academic par excellent, the director of
   the FIT museum, Valerie Steele.

   And much more.

   IMPORTANT: This is a digital PDF download. You will receive the
   download link upon purchase. Please note that the purchase is limited
   to one download. We highly recommend that you download to your primary
   computer.

   In our flagship article, Eugene Rabkin goes to England and Belgium to
          report on the intimate friendship and creative exchange between
          the singer PJ Harvey and the designer Ann Demeulemeester and her
          husband, the photographer Patrick Robyn. With six full-page
          exclusive photographs of PJ Harvey by Patrick Robyn, shot at
          Demeulemeester's studio in Antwerp. In our flagship article,
          Eugene Rabkin goes to England and Belgium to report on the
          intimate friendship and creative exchange between the singer PJ
          Harvey and the designer Ann Demeulemeester and her husband, the
          photographer Patrick Robyn. With six full-page exclusive
          photographs of PJ Harvey by Patrick Robyn, shot at
          Demeulemeester's studio in Antwerp.
          In our flagship article, Eugene Rabkin goes to England and
          Belgium to report on the intimate friendship and creative
          exchange between the singer PJ Harvey and the designer Ann
          Demeulemeester and her husband, the photographer Patrick Robyn.
          With six full-page exclusive photographs of PJ Harvey by Patrick
          Robyn, shot at Demeulemeester's studio in Antwerp.

   In our men's editorial, we pay homage to the iconic performance piece,
          I Like America and America Likes Me, by the German artist Joseph
          Beuys. Shot in Brooklyn by Jeff P. Elstone II with clothes by
          Ann Demeulemeester, Paul Harnden, Geoffrey B. Small, Forme
          d'Expression, Lost & Found, and Guidi. In our men's editorial,
          we pay homage to the iconic performance piece, I Like America
          and America Likes Me, by the German artist Joseph Beuys. Shot in
          Brooklyn by Jeff P. Elstone II with clothes by Ann
          Demeulemeester, Paul Harnden, Geoffrey B. Small, Forme
          d'Expression, Lost & Found, and Guidi.
          In our men's editorial, we pay homage to the iconic performance
          piece, I Like America and America Likes Me, by the German artist
          Joseph Beuys. Shot in Brooklyn by Jeff P. Elstone II with
          clothes by Ann Demeulemeester, Paul Harnden, Geoffrey B. Small,
          Forme d'Expression, Lost & Found, and Guidi.

   Eugene Rabkin talks to Deborah Turbeville, one of the luminaries of
          contemporary photography, about the influence of literature on
          her work and her unique aesthetic. With exclusive photography of
          Turbeville's archives and her New York City apartment by
          Turbeville's art director Tuomas Korpijaakko. Eugene Rabkin
          talks to Deborah Turbeville, one of the luminaries of
          contemporary photography, about the influence of literature on
          her work and her unique aesthetic. With exclusive photography of
          Turbeville's archives and her New York City apartment by
          Turbeville's art director Tuomas Korpijaakko.
          Eugene Rabkin talks to Deborah Turbeville, one of the luminaries
          of contemporary photography, about the influence of literature
          on her work and her unique aesthetic. With exclusive photography
          of Turbeville's archives and her New York City apartment by
          Turbeville's art director Tuomas Korpijaakko.

   In this women's editorial, photographer Erik Madigan Heck dwells on the
          color blue in nature and clothing. Shot in New York City and
          Iceland with clothes by Haider Ackermann, Jean Paul Gaultier,
          A.F. Vandevorst, and Rodarte, among others. In this women's
          editorial, photographer Erik Madigan Heck dwells on the color
          blue in nature and clothing. Shot in New York City and Iceland
          with clothes by Haider Ackermann, Jean Paul Gaultier, A.F.
          Vandevorst, and Rodarte, among others.
          In this women's editorial, photographer Erik Madigan Heck dwells
          on the color blue in nature and clothing. Shot in New York City
          and Iceland with clothes by Haider Ackermann, Jean Paul
          Gaultier, A.F. Vandevorst, and Rodarte, among others.

   We travel to Iceland to profile Sruli Recht, the designer who crafts
          his otherworldly creations in Reykjavik, Iceland out of
          everything he can get his hands on, from shark hides to black
          diamonds. We travel to Iceland to profile Sruli Recht, the
          designer who crafts his otherworldly creations in Reykjavik,
          Iceland out of everything he can get his hands on, from shark
          hides to black diamonds.
          We travel to Iceland to profile Sruli Recht, the designer who
          crafts his otherworldly creations in Reykjavik, Iceland out of
          everything he can get his hands on, from shark hides to black
          diamonds.

   Our Belgian correspondent, Veerle Windels, writes about one of the most
          promising designers the Antwerp Royal Academy has produced in
          the last years. Our Belgian correspondent, Veerle Windels,
          writes about one of the most promising designers the Antwerp
          Royal Academy has produced in the last years.
          Our Belgian correspondent, Veerle Windels, writes about one of
          the most promising designers the Antwerp Royal Academy has
          produced in the last years.

You may also like...

     * StyleZeitgeist Volume 5 (Digital) StyleZeitgeist Volume 5 (Digital)
       StyleZeitgeist Volume 5 (Digital) $10.00
       Add to cart

Related products

     * You can order our fourth volume, featuring articles on Dries Van
       Noten, Maison Martin Margiela, Maurizio Amadei, Aitor Throup, and
       more, by clicking on the link below. You can order our fourth
       volume, featuring articles on Dries Van Noten, Maison Martin
       Margiela, Maurizio Amadei, Aitor Throup, and more, by clicking on
       the link below.
       StyleZeitgeist Volume 4 (Digital) $10.00
       Add to cart
     * 1. COMME DES GARCONS - PERFUME In this article on CdG PARFUM, with
       interviews of Rei Kawakubo, Adrian Joffe, and the creative director
       Christian Astuguevieille, we examine the history and impact of
       Comme des Garcons' perfumery business. 2. A.F.VANDEVORST -
       INDEPENDENT An interview with An Vandevorst and Filip Arickx, the
       duo behind one of the few remaining iconic independent labels. 3.
       SARAH MOON - MEMORY AND DESIRE An interview-based profile of one of
       the most esteemed and fascinating photographers of the 20th
       Century. 4. JAMIE A women's editorial with Jamie Bochert. Shot in
       an abandoned church in Bushwick, Brooklyn by Jennifer Tzar.
       Styling, Christine de Lassus. 5. BORIS BIDJAN SABERI - THE BRUTAL
       WAY An interview-based profile of the German-Iranian designer
       working in Barcelona. 6. WERKSTATT MUNCHEN - WORK IN PROCESS
       Another in the series of photo essays highlighting artisanal
       manufacturing practices, this one of the niche German jeweler who
       produces jewelry under his own name and for Ann Demeulemeester. 7.
       FREYJA A women's editorial with Christina Kruse, based on the Norse
       goddess of love and war. Shot by Jeff Elstone. Styling, James
       Rosenthal. 8. ALEXANDER MCQUEEN - TRIPTYCH An article reviewing
       three new books on Alexander McQueen due this fall. 9. RAD HOURANI
       - HAUTE COUTURE A photo essay shot by the designer Rad Hourani
       during the making of his first, and the first ever, unisex haute
       couture collection. 10. CHRISTIAN WIJNANTS - WHITE THREAD An
       interview-based profile of the Belgian designer and the recent
       winner of the Woolmark prize. 11. THE ROAD Men's editorial shot by
       Baralama Heller. Styling, Daniel Franco. 12. HAROLD KODA AND ANDREW
       BOLTON - SPIDER MAN AND THE INVISIBLE EQUITY GUY An interview with
       the co-curators of the Costume Institute at the Metropolitan Museum
       of Art in New York. 1. COMME DES GARCONS - PERFUME In this article
       on CdG PARFUM, with interviews of Rei Kawakubo, Adrian Joffe, and
       the creative director Christian Astuguevieille, we examine the
       history and impact of Comme des Garcons' perfumery business. 2.
       A.F.VANDEVORST - INDEPENDENT An interview with An Vandevorst and
       Filip Arickx, the duo behind one of the few remaining iconic
       independent labels. 3. SARAH MOON - MEMORY AND DESIRE An
       interview-based profile of one of the most esteemed and fascinating
       photographers of the 20th Century. 4. JAMIE A women's editorial
       with Jamie Bochert. Shot in an abandoned church in Bushwick,
       Brooklyn by Jennifer Tzar. Styling, Christine de Lassus. 5. BORIS
       BIDJAN SABERI - THE BRUTAL WAY An interview-based profile of the
       German-Iranian designer working in Barcelona. 6. WERKSTATT MUNCHEN
       - WORK IN PROCESS Another in the series of photo essays
       highlighting artisanal manufacturing practices, this one of the
       niche German jeweler who produces jewelry under his own name and
       for Ann Demeulemeester. 7. FREYJA A women's editorial with
       Christina Kruse, based on the Norse goddess of love and war. Shot
       by Jeff Elstone. Styling, James Rosenthal. 8. ALEXANDER MCQUEEN -
       TRIPTYCH An article reviewing three new books on Alexander McQueen
       due this fall. 9. RAD HOURANI - HAUTE COUTURE A photo essay shot by
       the designer Rad Hourani during the making of his first, and the
       first ever, unisex haute couture collection. 10. CHRISTIAN WIJNANTS
       - WHITE THREAD An interview-based profile of the Belgian designer
       and the recent winner of the Woolmark prize. 11. THE ROAD Men's
       editorial shot by Baralama Heller. Styling, Daniel Franco. 12.
       HAROLD KODA AND ANDREW BOLTON - SPIDER MAN AND THE INVISIBLE EQUITY
       GUY An interview with the co-curators of the Costume Institute at
       the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.
       StyleZeitgeist Volume 3 (Digital) $10.00
       Add to cart
     * StyleZeitgeist Volume 1 (Digital) StyleZeitgeist Volume 1 (Digital)
       StyleZeitgeist Volume 1 (Digital) $10.00
       Add to cart

   [svg%3E] [footer-logo.png]
     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store

   Footer Menu

   © 2025, All Rights Reserved.
   Go to Top

   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)

   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
