   #StyleZeitgeist » Feed StyleZeitgeist » Comments Feed StyleZeitgeist »
   The StyleZeitgeist Tokyo Guide: 2025 Edition Comments Feed JSON oEmbed
   (JSON) oEmbed (XML)

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5N88NH9V

   Skip to content
   Facebook page opens in new windowInstagram page opens in new window
   Search:
   ____________________
   Go!
   $0.00

   View CartCheckout
     * No products in the cart.

   Subtotal: $0.00

   View CartCheckout

   StyleZeitgeist
   Counterculture - Fashion and Culture Magazine
   StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist
     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store
     * Academy

     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store
     * Academy

The StyleZeitgeist Tokyo Guide: 2025 Edition

   By Eugene Rabkin Culture, Travel Feb 6, 2025
   Tags: aoyamaComme Des GarconsdaikanyamaDover Street
   MarketGuidenakameguroomotesandoshibuyashoppingsoloistTokyoUndercoverYoh
   ji Yamamoto

   Tokyo Ginza

   For the aesthetically inclined and design conscious there is probably
   no better place on earth than Tokyo. Things are similar enough and
   foreign enough in Tokyo to make it all the more exciting, even though
   in the last couple of years the intractable march of globalization of
   culture has left an indelible stamp on the city.  It's been seven years
   since this guide was originally published and the city undoubtedly
   feels more touristy. But it has lost almost none of its excitement or
   charm. Almost, because some areas, such as Harajuku, aren't really not
   worth your time anymore.

   I've been to Tokyo seven times and by now and there is still much to
   discover feel. Tokyo is different from Western cultural capitals - here
   it's not about grand architecture and museums but about the fabric of
   the city. Therefore, I decided that the best approach is to break the
   guide down by neighborhood rather than make a list of places, because
   there are too many of them. Tokyo is vast - don't even think about
   spending less than a week here. I'll list the neighborhoods more or
   less in order of preference and/or proximity to each other. Aside from
   these recommendations, the best advice I can give you is to get lost in
   the wonderful maze of Tokyo's streets - because the best spots are
   often in the back alleys off the main thoroughfares. You'll need your
   GPS. I will leave it to you to google the addresses on your own.

   Omotesando/Aoyama

   This is the place to shop. Most of the flagships of Japanese brands are
   concentrated in these adjacent neighborhoods. Within several blocks of
   each other you will see shops of Comme des Garcons, Yohji Yamamoto,
   Undercover, Sacai, Kolor, and TAKAHIROMIYASHITATheSoloist. But I'd
   start with the Nezu museum - its wonderful traditional Japanese garden
   is serenity itself, and will charge you for the onslaught of shopping.
   Next door to Nezu is the Rick Owens flagship, so you might as well
   start your shopping there. Then cross the street, go up the stairs to
   see the Grocery Store, which is actually The Soloist flagship. Adjacent
   to it are several small shops from Arts & Science, Sonya Park's
   mini-empire, which are worth a visit.

   Turn the corner and you'll encounter the Yohji Yamamoto shop and then
   Comme des Garçons (and Issey Miyake across the street). Then loop
   around the Prada building and sneak into the Undercover flagship. If
   you are into Sacai or Kolor, those are also nearby. Most likely you
   will be ready for a coffee by then, and you could do worse than get one
   at Blue Bottle Aoyama. Make your way back to the main thoroughfare and
   take a peek at Omotesando Hills. Yes, it's a mall, but it's a mall
   built by Tadao Ando. You don't need to spend a lot of time at
   Omotesando Hills, unless you want to get lunch there, although I really
   recommend the best branch of Maisen, Tokyo's tonkatsu temple (go off
   hours if you don't want to stand in a long line). Walk further and
   cross the main thoroughfare back by an overpass and make your way to
   the Gyre building, which has the Comme des Garcons Trading Museum the
   CDG Good Design Shop, and the Visvim flagship. If you are ready for a
   casual snack, you could grab some takoyaki - octopus balls - from a
   stand on Cat Street across from the Opening Ceremony building. If you
   have strength left you can check out the flagship of Graphpaper, the
   much hyped Japanese menswear brand, which also carries Lemaire and Aeta
   bags.

   If you get sick of looking at stores, you can make your way up to the
   Yoyogi park. Despite being mobbed by tourists, it's still a peaceful
   place. Check out the Meiji shrine, and than walk up and left to reach a
   pond, which is pretty and few tourists make it up there.

   Daikanyama / Nakameguro

   These two lovely neighborhoods are next to each other and a complete
   antidote to the two above. They are busy but not crowded and have a
   decidedly more village-like feel. Daikanyama is a posh area whose NYC
   equivalent is probably TriBeCa or West Village. You can start at
   T-Site, a sprawling branch of the bookstore chain Tsutaya. It carries a
   large selection of art and design books and seemingly every magazine
   under the sun. If your brain is about to explode because you are unable
   to choose which of the fifty Daido Moriyama books to buy, you can walk
   across the street and have a coffee on the back terrace of Saturday's
   Surf. However, if you need to decide between coffee or tea, what you
   really want is the downstairs tea salon at the Daikanyama branch of the
   Conran Shop. And the store itself is brilliant - a completely different
   concept from other branches, it is devoted solely to Japanese and Asian
   craft. It carries clothes and blankets from Mittan, Aeta bags, and su
   Ha wooden jewelry, among many other treasures.

   If you have time and want to make the effort, you can hunt down the
   well-hidden Daikanyama branch of Arts & Science. Otherwise, continue
   down the main drag until you come to The Address, which houses Lift
   Daikanyama. The store is beautiful and really gives justice to a large
   collection of Carol Christian Poell the shop carries, along with m.a.+,
   Label Under Construction and other artisanal brands.

   From Daikanyama you'll want to walk downhill to Nakameguro. If you are
   hungry by then and the weather is nice, make sure to stumble upon
   Carlino's pizza truck - the pizza is outstanding (say hi to Hisa for
   me). Nakameguro's main draw are the several peaceful, cherry tree-lined
   blocks by the Meguro river, which largely house independent shops,
   restaurants, and art galleries, as well as the little alleys behind
   them. You'll probably want to also walk into the Nakameguro branch of
   Aesop, one of its best. The newly opened Visvim flagship, spread over
   two adjacent buildings is absolutely beautiful, and it has a cafe with
   one table. If vintage repro is your style you may also want to hit up
   the Nigel Cabourn flagship. If you are looking for a nice hat, check
   out Nine Tailor. Another shop worth browsing is 1LDK, which also has a
   cafe that's a good option for lunch. Otherwise, I recommend Afuri for
   ramen. But if you want to stick to cafes, Epulor is a wonderful,
   vinyl-spinning all day spot that is equally good for a coffee in the
   afternoon or for a glass of wine in the evening.

   For dinner I wholeheartedly recommend one of my most favorite izakayas,
   Tatemichiya. The chef-owner is an old punk, and the interior is lined
   in punk and Japanese gangster movie posters. You will be hearing punk
   all evening. Kick back with a beer and skate wings that you'll have to
   grill yourself and which make a perfect beer snack, and get the divine
   steak.

   LEMAIRE EBISU

   Ebisu

   Adjacent to Daikanayma, Ebisu is primarily a residential neighborhood,
   but it has some great retail spots that make it worth a visit. Getting
   out of the Ebisu train station and walking up a hill will bring you to
   the trio of Kapital stores. From there, you can walk to the Yebisu
   Garden Place, which is a weird structure that resembles an Atlanta
   mall. But, it does have a Yebisu Beer cafe, and I recommend tasting a
   local brew. You can check out what's on view at the Tokyo Photographic
   Art Museum next to it, or you can continue walking past until you hit
   the newly opened Lemaire flagship. The beautiful space occupies a
   private house that was built in the '60s and Lemaire left the apartment
   atmosphere intact. Walk for another few minutes and around the corner
   there is The Viridi-Anne flagship with the most complete lineup of the
   brand's offerings. There is also a Hender Scheme store nearby, and last
   not but least there is Biotop, which is one of those multibrand
   neighborhood stores that are too out of the way for tourists and
   therefore cater to the local affluent, and in my opinion such shops are
   always fascinating. Biotop carries The Row, Auralee, and HYKE, amongst
   others. Weirdly enough, I don't have any must recommendations for food
   in Ebisu, unless you want to eat Afuri ramen again, but you should
   finish your night at Bar Martha, my favorite vinyl bar in Tokyo.

   Roppongi

   Roppongi gets a bad rep because a part of it is full of lame bars and
   banker expats, but there is a lovely part to it, whose epicenter is the
   Tokyo Midtown Tower. In the said tower the main draw are the interior
   design shops. If you are into Japanese ceramics, knives, and so on,
   this is the place, with stores like Time & Style, Hinobashi Kiya,
   Tenerita, and a small outpost of Itoya, the stationary emporium. And
   don't miss the Nakagawa Masashichi Shotengai kiosk on the ground floor
   - it's a great shop for small gifts. You will need to recharge your
   batteries before visiting the 21_21 Design Sight, an art gallery
   designed by Tadao Ando for Issey Miyake, so grab some dessert from
   Sadaharu Aoki, the Paris-trained Japanese patisserie maker, or a bento
   box from a slew of small stall and go out to the park in the back of
   Midtown Tower. You may also be tempted to walk into Barneys, but I
   don't recommend it. If you are in luck, the National Arts Center will
   have a good exhibit on. And if not, then make your way to the Mori Art
   Museum. It occupies a top floor of another complex whose plaza features
   a giant Louise Bourgeois spider, and which also includes a mall that
   has two Kapital outposts in it.

   Shibuya

   It's not that I hesitate to recommend Shibuya - it's such a Tokyo icon
   - but just know what you are getting into. It's a teenager and tourist
   mob, but you gotta do it once, preferably on a Tuesday. Go in the early
   evening, after the sun sets to experience the full effect of Shibuya's
   lights. Start at the Shibuya crossing, as you must, and slowly (you'll
   have no choice) make your way up. Breathe deeply and go with the flow
   and you'll be fine. If you are into vinyl or CDs, your can pop into a
   branch of Disk Union and its five floors of goodies. If not, stop by
   Loft to load up on Japanese stationary and other knick-knacks you never
   new you needed. It's also a one-stop shop for all the little gifts you
   may want to bring from Tokyo. Walk far up enough and you'll hit
   branches of Neighborhood and (W)Taps. Keep walking and you'll hit the
   huge flagship of Descente, one of my favorite Japanese outdoor brands.
   And from there, if you still have energy left, you can walk up Cat
   Street, which is full of high street stores, and eventually end up in
   Omotesando.

   JIL SANDER GINZA

   Ginza / Marunouchi

   Ginza is the Tokyo equivalent of Fifth Avenue. It's old glitz and
   glamour, and you should do it only if you have time. You will most
   likely start at Dover Street Market. No need to explain that one.
   Around the corner from DSM is the newis luxury mall called Ginza Six.
   Perhaps it's worth checking out for some interior design shops and its
   restaurants. There is also a branch of Undercover, etc. On its top
   floor there is a bar called Mixology Salon, which makes phenomenal
   tea-based cocktails. From Ginza Six walk a couple of blocks to the
   flagship of Itoya for seven stories of all things stationary. Further
   up you will find a well-hidden branch of Highashiya, a shop that is
   part of the Ogata empire. This is the place to hit up for sweets and
   tea for yourself and for your loved ones back home. From there you can
   either pop around the corner to see the new Jil Sander shop with a
   stunning interior by Casper, Mueller, Kneer, one of my favorite
   architects, or continue on to the Hermés building by Renzo Piano. You
   don't need to walk in, but cross the street and admire the stunning
   glass brick facade.

   If you can still walk, I am one of the few weird people who actually
   likes Marunouchi, an office neighborhood of glass towers. Walk up to
   the Tokyo Station, one of the few old European style buildings that
   have been immaculately preserved. If you are hungry, there is a myriad
   of food options inside. There is a ton of shopping in the glass towers
   adjacent to the Tokyo Station. My favorite is Shin Marunouchi, which
   has a branch of Beams, the Conran Shop, and a few other interesting
   things.

   Shinjuku

   If you want to do all of your shopping in one place, you could do worse
   than Isetan, which has pretty much everything under the sun. You'll
   want to strategize and only hit the floor that has Japanese designers,
   as well as the household floor, or you will exhaust yourself. Use the
   time and energy you saved and head straight for the basement food
   court, which is the eighth wonder of the world, right behind the
   pyramids of Giza. If the weather is nice, grab a bento box and head for
   the Shinjuku Gyoen, a lovely public garden, for a picnic (the $5 entry
   fee is well worth it). After you've fortified yourself you can go back
   where you started and hit up the Shinjuku branches of Disk Union and
   Beams, across from each other. You'll probably be exhausted by then, so
   I'm keeping the Shinjuku part short.

   Jimbocho

   If you are a book hound, this neighborhood is your heaven. Start at
   Komiyama, the multi floor emporium that has every fashion, art, and
   photo book you've ever wanted and couldn't find elsewhere. From there,
   loop around the corner, spot a beautiful concrete paneled building that
   houses Nanyodo, solely devoted to architecture books. The two-floor
   atrium space itself is a modernist architecture dream. Then make your
   way to Super Labo, a gallery / bookshop of one of the best photo book
   publishers in the world, whose selection of photographers as is high
   quality and tight as their paper, ink, and binding. If you have energy
   left, wonder around and you'll find more book shops, as well as another
   branch of Disk Union.

   Practical Info

   You will need Internet access at all times. If you cannot use the GPS
   on your phone, you will get lost - guaranteed.

   Use the subway. Unlike Tokyo's notoriously hard to navigate streets,
   the subway system is easy to master, has all signs in English, and is
   incredibly efficient. Buy a Suica or a Pasmo card, or get them on your
   smartphone wallet, and load money on it. Not only it's accepted by all
   Tokyo metro lines (which are run by different companies, which make
   buying one-time tickets even more annoying), but it serves as a de
   facto debit card that you can use at convenience stores, luggage
   lockers and more.

   Forget about finding the best ramen shop or a tonkatsu spot or a coffee
   shop. There are simply too many good ones, and you don't need to make
   the extra effort. If you need a telling sign that a place is good, it
   will probably be full and there will be a line to get in. Waiting in
   line for food is a thing in Japan, so get with the program.

   Learn how to say "thank you" in Japanese, and maybe a few other
   phrases. It will get you far. Contrary to popular belief not many
   Japanese speak English, though you will be more or less Ok in central
   Tokyo. If you need something, point. In many restaurants menus come
   with pictures. In general, be polite and for god's sake don't be loud
   and respect personal space. Don't talk on the phone on the subway and
   you are not allowed to smoke on the street.

Author: Eugene Rabkin

   https://www.sz-mag.com/

   Eugene Rabkin is the founder of stylezeitgeist.com. He has contributed
   articles on fashion and culture to The Business of Fashion, Vogue
   Russia, Buro247, the Haaretz Daily Newspaper, and other publications.
   He has taught critical writing and fashion writing courses at Parsons
   the New School for Design.

Post navigation

   PreviousPrevious post:YUIMA NAKAZATO FALL / WINTER 2025 COUTURE -
   PARISNextNext post:StyleZeitgeist Podcast: Paris Fashion Week F/W 2025
   with Philippe Pourhashemi

Latest Posts from Category

   StyleZeitgeist Podcast: What Luxury? with Robert Williams
   Apr 17, 2025

   StyleZeitgeist Podcast: NEMESIS with Emily Segal
   Apr 4, 2025

   StyleZeitgeist Podcast: Paris Fashion Week F/W 2025 Women's with
   Philippe Pourhashemi
   Mar 21, 2025

   StyleZeitgeist Podcast: Fashion & Art: Redux with Natasha Degen
   Mar 11, 2025

   Alaia Mugler at La Foundation Azzedine Alaia
   Feb 28, 2025

   The StyleZeitgeist Guide to Antwerp : 2025 Edition
   Feb 20, 2025

   [svg%3E] [footer-logo.png]
     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store

   Footer Menu

   © 2025, All Rights Reserved.
   Go to Top

   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
