   #StyleZeitgeist » Feed StyleZeitgeist » Comments Feed StyleZeitgeist »
   Trump, the Unwitting Sustainability Warrior Comments Feed JSON oEmbed
   (JSON) oEmbed (XML)

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5N88NH9V

   Skip to content
   Facebook page opens in new windowInstagram page opens in new window
   Search:
   ____________________
   Go!
   $0.00

   View CartCheckout
     * No products in the cart.

   Subtotal: $0.00

   View CartCheckout

   StyleZeitgeist
   Counterculture - Fashion and Culture Magazine
   StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist
     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store
     * Academy

     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store
     * Academy

Trump, the Unwitting Sustainability Warrior

   By Eugene Rabkin Fashion Apr 11, 2025

   Take a deep breath, and suspend your justified knee-jerk reaction at
   mentioning Trump before you read on, as I had to do in order to write
   this article.

   There is much debate about the economic damage of Trump's harsh tariff
   policies. Even though most tariffs have been suspended for 90 days,
   let's go ahead with the scenario in which they go into effect. Many
   outcomes are still hazy, but one thing is clear, they will likely
   decrease consumption, especially in America. And in the world of
   overconsumption, isn't that what so many of us who are concerned with
   sustainability want? The developed world, and the US especially, groans
   under the weight of cheap stuff that the current world economy,
   especially in Asia, overproduces, and that ends up in landfills. The
   cycle of planned obsolescence has sped up across the board, but
   especially in fashion, where we no longer talk about fast fashion from
   the likes of H&M, but about ultra-fast-fashion from the likes of the
   Chinese giant Shein. The consumers are doing nothing to change their
   shopping habits, so, as I have argued before, it will fall on the
   governments to regulate fast fashion. Unwittingly, Trump may be doing
   just that.

   Let's examine Trump's policies in detail. The first thing that jumped
   out at me was not his tariff hikes, but the cancellation of the de
   minimis exemption on goods coming from China. This especially affects
   the ultra fast fashion giant Shein and the general cheap goods colossus
   Temu, which also sells plenty of clothes in the US. These two companies
   - by one estimation Shein is now the biggest clothing retailer in the
   world - have built their business models on shipping goods direct to
   consumers from China. The generous de minimis duty-free allowance of
   $800 on packages crossing into the United States has saved them
   billions of dollars and allowed to keep their prices low. The impact of
   the de minimis cancellation will most likely be significant, as the
   consumer who has been hooked on the drug of ultra low prices is also
   the most price-sensitive, and in all likelihood will most likely be the
   first to pull back spending.

   Next, it's worth examining which countries have been hit with the
   highest tariffs. These include China (145% at this point), Vietnam
   (46%), Bangladesh (37%), and Indonesia (32%), mass market apparel and
   footwear manufacturing giants. In all countries much of what is
   produced for consumption in the West is made in sweatshop conditions
   using exploitative practices. While there is no question that there
   will be economic cost to these countries, long term it may also force
   them to rethink their appalling labor practices. Meanwhile, price
   increases on goods from mass market juggernauts like Nike and Adidas,
   as well as big mid-market fashion companies like Ralph Lauren and
   Coach, should also decrease American overconsumption, as prices rise,
   in some cases as much as 40%, according to a recent Reuters article.
   This also means that the American consumer, whose confidence has been
   lowered due to inflation-inducing Trump's policies, will most likely
   pull back from buying clothing, as they concentrate on purchasing
   necessities and saving. According to a preliminary report by the
   National Federation of Retailers, an American trade body, U.S. imports
   may fall by as much as 20% in the second half of 2025.

   "Democratization of fashion" is how fast fashion companies and mass
   market purveyors of clothing have long defended their role in polluting
   the planet, arguing that cheap prices allow even the Western poor to
   buy style. This defense is nothing but a fig leaf, since the
   overwhelming majority of fast fashion consumers are middle class. Most
   of these clothes are worn a couple of times and discarded, ending up in
   landfills in Africa. One 2018 study estimates that by 2050 global
   consumption of clothing could more than triple. All the sustainability
   solutions can be boiled down to only one thing, we must buy less.

   The messaging we get from the world today is deeply conflicting. Listen
   to the economists, and the economy must grow every year. Listen to the
   ecologists, and we are killing the planet because we make too much
   stuff. There must be a middle ground somewhere. Unwittingly, Trump may
   force us to find it.

Author: Eugene Rabkin

   https://www.sz-mag.com/

   Eugene Rabkin is the founder of stylezeitgeist.com. He has contributed
   articles on fashion and culture to The Business of Fashion, Vogue
   Russia, Buro247, the Haaretz Daily Newspaper, and other publications.
   He has taught critical writing and fashion writing courses at Parsons
   the New School for Design.

Post navigation

   PreviousPrevious post:StyleZeitgeist Podcast: NEMESIS with Emily
   SegalNextNext post:Duran Lantink's Appointment to Gaultier Proves That
   Contemporary Fashion Is a Simulation

Latest Posts from Category

   Unpacking Kering's Earnings
   Apr 23, 2025

   OUTLAWS: Fashion Renegades Of Leigh Bowery's 1980s London
   Apr 23, 2025

   StyleZeitgeist Podcast: What Luxury? with Robert Williams
   Apr 17, 2025

   Duran Lantink's Appointment to Gaultier Proves That Contemporary
   Fashion Is a Simulation
   Apr 15, 2025

   StyleZeitgeist Podcast: NEMESIS with Emily Segal
   Apr 4, 2025

   What Karl Marx Can Teach Us About the Current State of Fashion
   Mar 27, 2025

   [svg%3E] [footer-logo.png]
     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store

   Footer Menu

   © 2025, All Rights Reserved.
   Go to Top

   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
