   #StyleZeitgeist » Feed StyleZeitgeist » Comments Feed StyleZeitgeist »
   Duran Lantink's Appointment to Gaultier Proves That Contemporary
   Fashion Is a Simulation Comments Feed JSON oEmbed (JSON) oEmbed (XML)

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5N88NH9V

   Skip to content
   Facebook page opens in new windowInstagram page opens in new window
   Search:
   ____________________
   Go!
   $0.00

   View CartCheckout
     * No products in the cart.

   Subtotal: $0.00

   View CartCheckout

   StyleZeitgeist
   Counterculture - Fashion and Culture Magazine
   StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist
     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store
     * Academy

     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store
     * Academy

Duran Lantink's Appointment to Gaultier Proves That Contemporary Fashion Is a
Simulation

   By Eugene Rabkin Fashion Apr 15, 2025

   Today we woke up to the news that the up and coming designer Duran
   Lantink has been appointed as the creative director of Jean Paul
   Gaultier. This completes his recent victory lap that began with
   sweeping a handful of fashion prizes, including the Andam award and the
   LVMH prize.

   And while it is commendable that a young designer gets a crack at
   spearheading one of the most important brands in the history of
   contemporary fashion, it's also worth taking a fresh look at what he
   actually makes. The artifacts that can be called garments in his oeuvre
   are pretty forgettable - there is little innovation in terms of the
   silhouette, nor is there a very strong discernible aesthetic statement.
   Lantink is not without talent, but his true strength lies in making
   outlandish, sculpted outfits that look good on Instagram. The look from
   his last collection that was shared the most was not a garment at all,
   but a sculpted male bust, shown on a female model. Things like this are
   designed to go viral in that look-at-this-silly-thing way. They are
   fashion as memes.

   Memes, not clothes have been the main output of the fashion industry
   for the past ten years. It began with Demna's Vetements Snoop Dogg tees
   and Balenciaga hoodies with the Bernie Sanders logo flip, and continued
   with Jacquemus's tiny bags and Ludovic de Saint Sernin's little bath
   towels as men's skirts. Fashion shows are now retooled to be made
   solely for Instagram, as in Coperni's spray dress stunt or its Paris
   Disneyland runway presentation.

   What's missing from these brands are actual designed clothes. Go into
   any Balenciaga shop and you will be treated to a parade of banal
   hoodies, jeans, and sneakers, with not a single item without a logo of
   some sort. Jacquemus is a laughing stock among those who actually know
   how clothes are made for his shoddy construction. De Saint Sernin's and
   Coperni's actual garments are not even worth the few extra keystrokes
   of my keyboard.

   In the theatrics these meme brands put on they are following the
   fashion greats such as Alexander McQueen, Thierry Mugler, and Jean Paul
   Gaultier himself. But there is one crucial difference - the spectacles
   that those designers have put on were not for the sake of the spectacle
   itself. They were in the service of pushing the boundaries of fashion
   and revolting against the fashion bourgeois establishment by presenting
   alternative visions of beauty. Oh, and they made clothes. Well made,
   beautifully designed garments meant for a three-dimensional world. What
   we are treated to today is a simulacrum. Fashion now is hyperreality,
   in which the real has been replaced by a collection of empty signs and
   symbols that replace reality itself. Real, three-dimensional life with
   genuine culture does not matter; what matters is how you look on social
   media and virality.

   McQueen once famously told a BBC reporter, "I don't want to do a show
   where you come out feeling like you just had Sunday lunch. I want you
   to come out either repulsed or exhilarated, as long as it's an emotion.
   If you don't feel an emotion, I'm not doing my job." What we get now
   with one viral moment on top of another is Sunday lunch. The primary
   emotion that fashion memes elicit are amusement. They are junk food,
   easily digestible and forgotten. And because they are easily digestible
   they require constant replenishment to keep our attention on the brand.
   Hence the proliferation of fashion memes - Balenciaga's bag that looks
   like a coffee cup, the J.W. Anderson bag that looks like a pigeon, one
   from Louis Vuitton that looks like a can of paint, Bottega Veneta's
   $10,000 leather flowers, a cotton Prada tank top that costs $1,000. No
   one expects to buy the latter two, they are designed to go viral with
   the price itself becoming an absurdist meme. The countless collabs,
   like Balenciaga x Erewhon or Balmain x Evian are memes. The clothes
   themselves don't matter - they are just merch with zero design value.

   And the sad thing is that it works. Hyperreality is more real to
   fashion than reality. Memes are more important than clothes, because
   they keep customers coming through the door. And the utmost purveyors
   of hyperreality get plum jobs - Demna is going to Gucci and J.W.
   Anderson to Dior. The cost of hyperreality to fashion is real. By now
   fashion has taught an entire generation of young designers and design
   students to make memes not clothes, to make not fashion shows but viral
   stunts, to live in a simulation and not reality. Lantink's appointment
   is just the latest proof that this strategy works. The idea today is to
   start a viral brand and hope that you will get attention and eventually
   a major appointment. Of course we know that often such appointments
   don't last. But it works for a while, until consumers realize that they
   have been duped, that there is no there there, and that reality matters
   and a simulacrum is just not enough.

Author: Eugene Rabkin

   https://www.sz-mag.com/

   Eugene Rabkin is the founder of stylezeitgeist.com. He has contributed
   articles on fashion and culture to The Business of Fashion, Vogue
   Russia, Buro247, the Haaretz Daily Newspaper, and other publications.
   He has taught critical writing and fashion writing courses at Parsons
   the New School for Design.

Post navigation

   PreviousPrevious post:Trump, the Unwitting Sustainability
   WarriorNextNext post:StyleZeitgeist Podcast: What Luxury? with Robert
   Williams

Latest Posts from Category

   Unpacking Kering's Earnings
   Apr 23, 2025

   OUTLAWS: Fashion Renegades Of Leigh Bowery's 1980s London
   Apr 23, 2025

   StyleZeitgeist Podcast: What Luxury? with Robert Williams
   Apr 17, 2025

   Trump, the Unwitting Sustainability Warrior
   Apr 11, 2025

   StyleZeitgeist Podcast: NEMESIS with Emily Segal
   Apr 4, 2025

   What Karl Marx Can Teach Us About the Current State of Fashion
   Mar 27, 2025

   [svg%3E] [footer-logo.png]
     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store

   Footer Menu

   © 2025, All Rights Reserved.
   Go to Top

   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
