   #StyleZeitgeist » Feed StyleZeitgeist » Comments Feed JSON oEmbed
   (JSON) oEmbed (XML)

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5N88NH9V

   Skip to content
   Facebook page opens in new windowInstagram page opens in new window
   Search:
   ____________________
   Go!
   $0.00

   View CartCheckout
     * No products in the cart.

   Subtotal: $0.00

   View CartCheckout

   StyleZeitgeist
   Counterculture - Fashion and Culture Magazine
   StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist
     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store
     * Academy

     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store
     * Academy

StyleZeitgeist Volume 5 (Digital)

   StyleZeitgeist Volume 5 (Digital)
   We were incredibly privileged to profile one of the most influential
   art book publishers in the world and the last true artisan of printing,
   including a visit to Steidl headquarters in Gottingen, Germany.
   Editorial featuring Delfine Bafort, styled by Philippe Pourhashemi.
   Men's editorial, featuring Ann Demeulemeester, Rick Owens, Boris Bidjan
   Saberi and more, styled by Eugene Rabkin
   A profile of one of the hottest Belgian product designers who went from
   designing bags to furnishings.
   A profile of the Japanese-born photographer who documented lives of
   transvestite prostitutes in the meatpacking district of New York
   A profile of the rising young London designer Yang Li.
   Rick Owens describes his favorite books for us and lets us into his
   house for an intimate look at his library
   Thom Browne and his weird and wonderful world from our unique
   perspective.

StyleZeitgeist Volume 5 (Digital)

   $10.00

   StyleZeitgeist Print Volume 5, originally published in Spring 2014.

   Rick Owens picks some of his favorite books from his library, which we
   photograph at his Paris home.

   Eugene Rabkin spends three days with Gerhard Steidl, the most
   preeminent art photography book publisher in his printing compound in
   Germany.

   Eugene also profiles the American fashion designer Thom Browne, with
   brilliant photography by Matthew Reeves.

   Jana Melkumova-Reynolds interviews the cult fashion designer Yang Li.

   Matin Momen speaks with the Japanese photographer Katsu Naito, about
   documenting transvestite prostitutes in the Meatpacking District.

   Veerle Windels interviews Michael Verheyden, a one-time Raf Simons
   model who became one of the most intriguing creators of interior design
   objects.

   And much more!
   StyleZeitgeist Volume 5 (Digital) quantity (BUTTON) £ 1___ (BUTTON) ¢
   (63052) Add to cart
   Category: Magazine Tag: stylezeitgeist volume five
   sharing is caring
   Pin itShare on Pinterest Share on WhatsAppShare on WhatsApp Share on
   FacebookShare on Facebook
     * Description

Description

   StyleZeitgeist Print Volume 5, originally published in Spring 2014

   Rick Owens picks some of his favorite books from his library, which we
   photograph at his Paris home.

   Eugene Rabkin spends three days with Gerhard Steidl, the most
   preeminent art photography book publisher in his printing compound in
   Germany.

   Eugene also profiles the American fashion designer Thom Browne, with
   brilliant photography by Matthew Reeves.

   Jana Melkumova-Reynolds interviews the cult fashion designer Yang Li.

   Matin Momen speaks with the Japanese photographer Katsu Naito, about
   documenting transvestite prostitutes in the Meatpacking District.

   Veerle Windels interviews Michael Verheyden, a one-time Raf Simons
   model who became one of the most intriguing creators of interior design
   objects.

   And much more!

   IMPORTANT: This is a digital PDF download. You will receive the
   download link upon purchase. Please note that the purchase is limited
   to one download. We highly recommend that you download to your primary
   computer.

   Rick Owens describes his favorite books for us and lets us into his
          house for an intimate look at his library Rick Owens describes
          his favorite books for us and lets us into his house for an
          intimate look at his library
          Rick Owens describes his favorite books for us and lets us into
          his house for an intimate look at his library

   Thom Browne and his weird and wonderful world from our unique
          perspective. Thom Browne and his weird and wonderful world from
          our unique perspective.
          Thom Browne and his weird and wonderful world from our unique
          perspective.

   A profile of the rising young London designer Yang Li. A profile of the
          rising young London designer Yang Li.
          A profile of the rising young London designer Yang Li.

   Editorial featuring Delfine Bafort, styled by Philippe Pourhashemi.
          Editorial featuring Delfine Bafort, styled by Philippe
          Pourhashemi.
          Editorial featuring Delfine Bafort, styled by Philippe
          Pourhashemi.

   We were incredibly privileged to profile one of the most influential
          art book publishers in the world and the last true artisan of
          printing, including a visit to Steidl headquarters in Gottingen,
          Germany. We were incredibly privileged to profile one of the
          most influential art book publishers in the world and the last
          true artisan of printing, including a visit to Steidl
          headquarters in Gottingen, Germany.
          We were incredibly privileged to profile one of the most
          influential art book publishers in the world and the last true
          artisan of printing, including a visit to Steidl headquarters in
          Gottingen, Germany.

   A portrait series of designers we love, including Rick Owens, Boris
          Bidjan Saberi, Issei Fujita, Maurizo Amadei, and more. A
          portrait series of designers we love, including Rick Owens,
          Boris Bidjan Saberi, Issei Fujita, Maurizo Amadei, and more.
          A portrait series of designers we love, including Rick Owens,
          Boris Bidjan Saberi, Issei Fujita, Maurizo Amadei, and more.

   A profile of one of the hottest Belgian product designers who went from
          designing bags to furnishings. A profile of one of the hottest
          Belgian product designers who went from designing bags to
          furnishings.
          A profile of one of the hottest Belgian product designers who
          went from designing bags to furnishings.

   A profile of the Japanese-born photographer who documented lives of
          transvestite prostitutes in the meatpacking district of New York
          A profile of the Japanese-born photographer who documented lives
          of transvestite prostitutes in the meatpacking district of New
          York
          A profile of the Japanese-born photographer who documented lives
          of transvestite prostitutes in the meatpacking district of New
          York

You may also like...

     * 1. COMME DES GARCONS - PERFUME In this article on CdG PARFUM, with
       interviews of Rei Kawakubo, Adrian Joffe, and the creative director
       Christian Astuguevieille, we examine the history and impact of
       Comme des Garcons' perfumery business. 2. A.F.VANDEVORST -
       INDEPENDENT An interview with An Vandevorst and Filip Arickx, the
       duo behind one of the few remaining iconic independent labels. 3.
       SARAH MOON - MEMORY AND DESIRE An interview-based profile of one of
       the most esteemed and fascinating photographers of the 20th
       Century. 4. JAMIE A women's editorial with Jamie Bochert. Shot in
       an abandoned church in Bushwick, Brooklyn by Jennifer Tzar.
       Styling, Christine de Lassus. 5. BORIS BIDJAN SABERI - THE BRUTAL
       WAY An interview-based profile of the German-Iranian designer
       working in Barcelona. 6. WERKSTATT MUNCHEN - WORK IN PROCESS
       Another in the series of photo essays highlighting artisanal
       manufacturing practices, this one of the niche German jeweler who
       produces jewelry under his own name and for Ann Demeulemeester. 7.
       FREYJA A women's editorial with Christina Kruse, based on the Norse
       goddess of love and war. Shot by Jeff Elstone. Styling, James
       Rosenthal. 8. ALEXANDER MCQUEEN - TRIPTYCH An article reviewing
       three new books on Alexander McQueen due this fall. 9. RAD HOURANI
       - HAUTE COUTURE A photo essay shot by the designer Rad Hourani
       during the making of his first, and the first ever, unisex haute
       couture collection. 10. CHRISTIAN WIJNANTS - WHITE THREAD An
       interview-based profile of the Belgian designer and the recent
       winner of the Woolmark prize. 11. THE ROAD Men's editorial shot by
       Baralama Heller. Styling, Daniel Franco. 12. HAROLD KODA AND ANDREW
       BOLTON - SPIDER MAN AND THE INVISIBLE EQUITY GUY An interview with
       the co-curators of the Costume Institute at the Metropolitan Museum
       of Art in New York. 1. COMME DES GARCONS - PERFUME In this article
       on CdG PARFUM, with interviews of Rei Kawakubo, Adrian Joffe, and
       the creative director Christian Astuguevieille, we examine the
       history and impact of Comme des Garcons' perfumery business. 2.
       A.F.VANDEVORST - INDEPENDENT An interview with An Vandevorst and
       Filip Arickx, the duo behind one of the few remaining iconic
       independent labels. 3. SARAH MOON - MEMORY AND DESIRE An
       interview-based profile of one of the most esteemed and fascinating
       photographers of the 20th Century. 4. JAMIE A women's editorial
       with Jamie Bochert. Shot in an abandoned church in Bushwick,
       Brooklyn by Jennifer Tzar. Styling, Christine de Lassus. 5. BORIS
       BIDJAN SABERI - THE BRUTAL WAY An interview-based profile of the
       German-Iranian designer working in Barcelona. 6. WERKSTATT MUNCHEN
       - WORK IN PROCESS Another in the series of photo essays
       highlighting artisanal manufacturing practices, this one of the
       niche German jeweler who produces jewelry under his own name and
       for Ann Demeulemeester. 7. FREYJA A women's editorial with
       Christina Kruse, based on the Norse goddess of love and war. Shot
       by Jeff Elstone. Styling, James Rosenthal. 8. ALEXANDER MCQUEEN -
       TRIPTYCH An article reviewing three new books on Alexander McQueen
       due this fall. 9. RAD HOURANI - HAUTE COUTURE A photo essay shot by
       the designer Rad Hourani during the making of his first, and the
       first ever, unisex haute couture collection. 10. CHRISTIAN WIJNANTS
       - WHITE THREAD An interview-based profile of the Belgian designer
       and the recent winner of the Woolmark prize. 11. THE ROAD Men's
       editorial shot by Baralama Heller. Styling, Daniel Franco. 12.
       HAROLD KODA AND ANDREW BOLTON - SPIDER MAN AND THE INVISIBLE EQUITY
       GUY An interview with the co-curators of the Costume Institute at
       the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.
       StyleZeitgeist Volume 3 (Digital) $10.00
       Add to cart

Related products

     * You can order our fourth volume, featuring articles on Dries Van
       Noten, Maison Martin Margiela, Maurizio Amadei, Aitor Throup, and
       more, by clicking on the link below. You can order our fourth
       volume, featuring articles on Dries Van Noten, Maison Martin
       Margiela, Maurizio Amadei, Aitor Throup, and more, by clicking on
       the link below.
       StyleZeitgeist Volume 4 (Digital) $10.00
       Add to cart
     * You can order our second volume, featuring articles on PJ Harvey,
       Ann Demeulemeester, Deborah Turbeville, and more, by clicking on
       the link below. Here you'll also find pictures of the actual
       magazine. You can order our second volume, featuring articles on PJ
       Harvey, Ann Demeulemeester, Deborah Turbeville, and more, by
       clicking on the link below. Here you'll also find pictures of the
       actual magazine.
       StyleZeitgeist Volume 2 (Digital) $10.00
       Add to cart
     * StyleZeitgeist Volume 1 (Digital) StyleZeitgeist Volume 1 (Digital)
       StyleZeitgeist Volume 1 (Digital) $10.00
       Add to cart

   [svg%3E] [footer-logo.png]
     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store

   Footer Menu

   © 2025, All Rights Reserved.
   Go to Top

   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)

   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
