   #StyleZeitgeist » Feed StyleZeitgeist » Comments Feed StyleZeitgeist »
   Unpacking Kering's Earnings Comments Feed JSON oEmbed (JSON) oEmbed
   (XML)

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5N88NH9V

   Skip to content
   Facebook page opens in new windowInstagram page opens in new window
   Search:
   ____________________
   Go!
   $0.00

   View CartCheckout
     * No products in the cart.

   Subtotal: $0.00

   View CartCheckout

   StyleZeitgeist
   Counterculture - Fashion and Culture Magazine
   StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist
     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store
     * Academy

     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store
     * Academy

Unpacking Kering's Earnings

   By Eugene Rabkin Fashion Apr 23, 2025

   Today, Kering, the luxury conglomerate that owns Gucci, Yves Saint
   Laurent, Balenciaga, and Bottega Veneta, among others, reported its
   first quarter earnings, and the picture of the luxury industry it
   paints is even more dire than many thought. Overall sales are down by
   14%, Gucci's sales for the first three months of 2025 are down by 25%,
   as Kering's biggest brand flounders in the wake of a creative director
   reshuffling. At Yves Saint Laurent, its second biggest brand, sales are
   down 9%. Frustratingly, Kering does not break out Balenciaga's
   earnings, as it lumps them into "Other Houses," which include McQueen,
   Brioni, and a handful of jewelry brands they own. But Kering dropped a
   couple of hints in its earnings report.

   Overall revenue for "other houses" was down 11%. At the same time
   Kering boasted that sales grew at Brioni and its jewelry brands. Which
   means that most likely revenue at Balenciaga and McQueen dropped by
   more than 11%. Balenciaga may be dead in the water, except for its
   bags, which the brand has been pushing hard through relentless
   advertising. he performance of Balenciaga's leather goods lines was
   very solid, against an ongoing drop in store traffic," the company
   said. This also confirms what I see in the street during Paris Fashion
   Week - Balenciaga bags aplenty, but no more logoed jersey and almost no
   sneakers. The oversized black silhouette still reigns supreme for many
   fashion kids, but it looks like much of it is vintage - an easy
   substitute to Balenciaga's offerings.

   Meanwhile, Sean McGirr's McQueen, which virtually no one seems to like,
   got exactly one sentence in the report, "Sales were down at McQueen."
   One could almost hear the brusque curtness of an imperious father who
   does not even deign to bestow criticism on a child he deems totally
   hopeless.

   Bottega Veneta once again offered a bright spot, with revenues up 4%.
   But with Matthieu Blazy defecting to Chanel, its future is now in
   question (though we at StyleZeitgeist root for Louise Trotter). Brioni,
   Kering's high end tailoring line also grew slightly, as well as
   Kering's eyewear and beauty division.

   Now, what does it all mean? The picture the report paints is one that
   we already know.
    1. Luxury fashion is a mass market phenomenon. According to a report
       cited in the Economist, two-thirds of the business comes from
       consumers who spend 2,000 euros or less per year. That equals a
       couple of Balenciaga t-shirts, a Gucci belt or a pair of loafers,
       and a fragrance. That market has now largely collapsed, squeezed by
       egregious price hikes, economic uncertainty, and the rising dupe
       culture. That customer will still make an occasional small splurge,
       as can be seen in Kering's strong eyewear and beauty business.
    2. The rich are fine. Only brands that cater to the 1%, like Hermes,
       Brunello Cucinelli and Loro Piana, are doing well. The strength at
       Brioni, one of the top suit makers in the world, confirms this.
    3. There are only four untouchable luxury brands (for various reasons)
       - Chanel (incredible DNA and brand equity), Dior (ditto), Hermes
       (pinnacle of luxury positioning), and Louis Vuitton (#1 mass market
       brand, gets first dibs at middle class wallets). Kering has none.
       LVMH has two, and that's why their luxury fashion sales are down
       only 5%.
    4. Creative directors matter. The age of the primacy of the brand over
       the creative director may not exactly be at an end, but a slew of
       lackluster appointments show that talent still matters, and that
       big brands cannot coast on marketing alone.
    5. This downturn is not only cyclical but structural. The luxury
       industry overall has lot a lot of credibility with its audience in
       the past couple of years through egregious price hikes and
       generally disdainful attitude, and it may take a long time to
       rebuild that trust. Consumer are turning to other things -
       vacations, dupes, concerts - to seek pleasure in.

   My prediction is that this is far from over. All the trends that
   started at the end of 2023 are holding. With the looming stagflation
   (recession + inflation), and more likely price hikes on the horizon,
   things are not going to get better. Except similar earnings for the
   rest of the year if not beyond.

Author: Eugene Rabkin

   https://www.sz-mag.com/

   Eugene Rabkin is the founder of stylezeitgeist.com. He has contributed
   articles on fashion and culture to The Business of Fashion, Vogue
   Russia, Buro247, the Haaretz Daily Newspaper, and other publications.
   He has taught critical writing and fashion writing courses at Parsons
   the New School for Design.

Post navigation

   PreviousPrevious post:OUTLAWS: Fashion Renegades Of Leigh Bowery's
   1980s LondonNextNext post:Superfine: Tailoring Black Style at the Met
   Museum in New York

Latest Posts from Category

   Superfine: Tailoring Black Style at the Met Museum in New York
   May 9, 2025

   OUTLAWS: Fashion Renegades Of Leigh Bowery's 1980s London
   Apr 23, 2025

   StyleZeitgeist Podcast: What Luxury? with Robert Williams
   Apr 17, 2025

   Duran Lantink's Appointment to Gaultier Proves That Contemporary
   Fashion Is a Simulation
   Apr 15, 2025

   Trump, the Unwitting Sustainability Warrior
   Apr 11, 2025

   StyleZeitgeist Podcast: NEMESIS with Emily Segal
   Apr 4, 2025

   [svg%3E] [footer-logo.png]
     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store

   Footer Menu

   © 2025, All Rights Reserved.
   Go to Top

   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
