   #StyleZeitgeist » Feed StyleZeitgeist » Comments Feed StyleZeitgeist »
   What Karl Marx Can Teach Us About the Current State of Fashion Comments
   Feed JSON oEmbed (JSON) oEmbed (XML)

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5N88NH9V

   Skip to content
   Facebook page opens in new windowInstagram page opens in new window
   Search:
   ____________________
   Go!
   $0.00

   View CartCheckout
     * No products in the cart.

   Subtotal: $0.00

   View CartCheckout

   StyleZeitgeist
   Counterculture - Fashion and Culture Magazine
   StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist
     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store
     * Academy

     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store
     * Academy

What Karl Marx Can Teach Us About the Current State of Fashion

   By Eugene Rabkin Fashion, Features/Op-Ed Mar 27, 2025

   There's something rotten in the state of fashion. The kingdom of dreams
   seems to no longer be capable of producing them. Instead it has swamped
   its subjects in the sea of overpriced premium mediocre stuff, causing
   fatigue and boredom. What does an umpteenth collab or a logoed tee mean
   today? Nothing.

   The effects and the superficial causes of this sad state of affairs are
   widely discussed, but deep, underlying ones are not. Perhaps that's
   because fashion by its nature is preoccupied with the surface. But
   there are theories that can help us see beyond the facade. I already
   described one, of conspicuous consumption, developed by Thorstein
   Veblen in 1899. But we can go back even further in time, thirty years
   before Veblen, to Karl Marx and his magnum opus, Das Kapital. Marx may
   seem like an unlikely candidate for describing the current state of
   fashion, but bear with me (there is a reason why I assign his theory at
   the StyleZeitgeist Academy).

   In the past thirty years Marx has suffered a curious fate, especially
   in the neoliberal America, where he is seen not as a serious
   philosopher, but as a fiendish revolutionary devil whose writings cause
   instant communist brain damage. This view, mostly propagated by those
   who have never read Marx, has been so successful that Marx is virtually
   absent even from American so-called liberal academia. But Marx is a
   serious philosopher, who has not only accurately described some of our
   societal and economic conditions, but offered prescriptions that - it
   may shock you - have been incorporated into even the American society
   that only accepts the color red in its meat.

   But what does Marx's theory have to do with fashion? It helps to unpack
   one of central concepts of Das Kapital, exchange value versus use
   value. Marx's basic position is this: in the pre-capitalist economy,
   most things, including clothing, were produced by highly skilled
   artisans who were capable of crafting an object, let's say a coat, from
   start to finish, and were also likely to sell the product of their
   labor directly; which means that they fully identified with their labor
   and were invested into everything they made. By nature of their
   production, they could not make very much, and many things they made
   was quite expensive, which in turn limited the consumer's purchasing
   power. And so when the consumer did acquire an object, say the
   aforementioned coat, they would value it for its essential properties,
   such as protecting him from the elements, keeping him warm, and making
   him look presentable. Marx called this use value, the stuff that gave a
   coat its coatness, making that object real and concrete.

   Under the capitalist economy, Marx posited, such relationships
   disappear, or as he famously wrote, "all that is solid melts into air."
   Division of labor replaces a skilled craftsman with an assembly line
   worker who is charged with doing a repeated single task, who has
   neither the conception nor the ownership of the final product, which is
   sold by someone else half the way across the world. Instead of
   identifying with the final product, the worker is now alienated from
   it, and therefore is no longer invested in it as an artifact. Neither
   is the capitalist who sells it, because the product now becomes merely
   a commodity to be exchanged, meaning traded for money. Moreover, under
   the capitalist world order, where money becomes everything and where
   accumulation of objects becomes the most direct measure of one's
   self-worth, the consumer sees the product in the same way. We start
   valuing things for what they cost; their worth is measured not in terms
   of what an object does and how well it does it, but in monetary terms,
   in what it can be exchanged for. This is what Marx called exchange
   value.

   Marx posited that exchange value is abstract (what is money?), while
   use value is concrete (try walking around in the winter without a
   coat). Our prizing of abstract value leads to another of Marx's
   concepts, commodity fetishization, where we put commodities above
   ourselves because we value them for what they can be exchanged for, and
   not for their use.

   If this all seems too brainy, let's get concrete. Anyone who has tried
   to sell anything on Grailed will know exactly what Marx is talking
   about. By and large, the audience there only views garments in terms of
   exchange value, what it costs them, what the market is willing to pay,
   and so on. They are the epitome of the exchange value mindset that
   Oscar Wilde described so pithily in 1890, when he wrote, "Nowadays,
   people know the price of everything, and the value of nothing." People
   with the exchange value mindset don't alter their ill-fitting garments,
   because alteration may decrease their resale value. Most of the
   streetwear market, with its artificial scarcity and flip mindset, is
   the epitome of exchange value. Hype is exchange value. Limited edition
   is exchange value. "Collecting" has become an alibi for exchange value.

   Let's go further. What is a $600 t-shirt with a logo on it if not an
   example of a commodity as an abstraction? Its use value is next to
   zero. Additional use value can be derived from superior craftsmanship
   of an object, but an expensive t-shirt offers none. What is valued in
   such a garment is the purely abstract - the logo it carries and the
   price itself. This is commodity fetishization.

   Now zoom out and extrapolate that t-shirt mindset to all of fashion,
   and you can easily see that the fashion consumer is exhausted by
   decades of being forced to value fashion in purely abstract terms.
   We've gone through decades and decades of quality dilution, which has
   diminished use value, to be replaced by the logo as the marker of
   exchange value. The purely commercial run-of-the-mill commodities, like
   those t-shirts, that were once shoved into the showrooms for department
   store buyers are now on the runway. Fashion has turned to the logos and
   to collabs for empty value creation. And its consumers are now drowning
   in abstraction. But abstraction is like junk food; you feel good while
   you gorge on it and then you don't. And so finally, with fashion
   enthusiasts first and foremost, they have come to the inevitable
   conclusion that there is no there there, and no amount of creative
   director musical chairs or celebrity endorsements will get us out of
   this malaise.

   There is only one solution, for consumers to rediscover use value and
   for producers to give them garments they can be excited about. We need
   something concrete. The designer who understood this best was Martin
   Margiela. His work was about the garment, first and foremost. In his
   quest for prioritizing the garment, he made an all-white label that was
   attached to a garment by four stitches, so it could be easily removed.
   But the exchange value driven consumer did no such thing, turning the
   garments into a fetish. By now Margiela has become a fetish unto
   himself. Going forward, we need to reevaluate this state of affairs.
   Karl Marx can help.

Author: Eugene Rabkin

   https://www.sz-mag.com/

   Eugene Rabkin is the founder of stylezeitgeist.com. He has contributed
   articles on fashion and culture to The Business of Fashion, Vogue
   Russia, Buro247, the Haaretz Daily Newspaper, and other publications.
   He has taught critical writing and fashion writing courses at Parsons
   the New School for Design.

Post navigation

   PreviousPrevious post:RAKUTEN FASHION WEEK TOKYO FALL / WINTER
   2025NextNext post:StyleZeitgeist Podcast: NEMESIS with Emily Segal

Latest Posts from Category

   Unpacking Kering's Earnings
   Apr 23, 2025

   OUTLAWS: Fashion Renegades Of Leigh Bowery's 1980s London
   Apr 23, 2025

   StyleZeitgeist Podcast: What Luxury? with Robert Williams
   Apr 17, 2025

   Duran Lantink's Appointment to Gaultier Proves That Contemporary
   Fashion Is a Simulation
   Apr 15, 2025

   Trump, the Unwitting Sustainability Warrior
   Apr 11, 2025

   StyleZeitgeist Podcast: NEMESIS with Emily Segal
   Apr 4, 2025

   [svg%3E] [footer-logo.png]
     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store

   Footer Menu

   © 2025, All Rights Reserved.
   Go to Top

   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
