   #StyleZeitgeist » Feed StyleZeitgeist » Comments Feed StyleZeitgeist »
   AT PITTI UOMO SETCHU ASKS MORE OF US BY ASKING LESS Comments Feed JSON
   oEmbed (JSON) oEmbed (XML)

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5N88NH9V

   Skip to content
   Facebook page opens in new windowInstagram page opens in new window
   Search:
   ____________________
   Go!
   $0.00

   View CartCheckout
     * No products in the cart.

   Subtotal: $0.00

   View CartCheckout

   StyleZeitgeist
   Counterculture - Fashion and Culture Magazine
   StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist
     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store
     * Academy

     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store
     * Academy

AT PITTI UOMO SETCHU ASKS MORE OF US BY ASKING LESS

   By Eugene Rabkin Fashion, Features/Op-Ed Jan 17, 2025
   Tags: Pitti UomoSetchu

          Satoshi Kuwata by Stefano Galuzzi

   "We are not a fashion company," said Satoshi Kuwata, the designer of
   SETCHU, emphatically, after showing a foldable origami blazer he
   developed with Davies & Son, the oldest Saville Row tailor. We were at
   the press preview for his show at Pitti Uomo, the premier men's trade
   show in Florence. It was the first SETCHU show, and, according to
   Kuwata, most likely its last; the reason being that Kuwata's clothes
   require careful examination, not to say contemplation.

   Although Kuwata has twenty years of design experience, SETCHU seems to
   have sprung out of nowhere, fully formed. In 2023, Kuwata won the LVMH
   prize for young designers, despite his long tenure working behind the
   scenes at places as disparate as Saville Row and Golden Goose, Givenchy
   and Yeezy. An inside source told me that SETCHU was not initially in
   the running to win the prize because there was no hype around Kuwata.
   But when the committee saw the clothes, there was no doubt in their
   mind that they were in the presence of genuine talent. The fashion
   world concurs -- the enthusiasm amongst professionals around SETCHU is
   universal. An invitation from Pitti Uomo to put on a show is a
   confirmation in itself -- while the fair organizers pride themselves on
   keeping their ear to the ground for emerging talent, it is not often
   that a brand gets invited with only several collections under its belt.

   One can see why enthusiasm around SETCHU is contagious -- after years
   of creative directors and stylists, the fashion system has finally
   produced a member of that endangered species, a designer. Kuwata thinks
   about building clothes not brands, knowing that the clothes he makes
   will be what will build the brand in the long run. Spend some time with
   Kuwata's garments and you quickly learn the formidable thought process
   that produces clothes that carry ease and complexity in equal measure.

   The first time I met Kuwata was at his Paris showroom shortly after he
   won the LVMH prize, and he walked me through his collection, showing
   the multiple ways his garments can be worn. He possesses a simultaneous
   humility and a dry sense of humor befitting someone who spent time in
   Britain. Demonstrating versatility of his clothes, Kuwata tried on a
   sweatshirt with zippers running along the side seams, and said, "This
   is the regular way you can wear it, but if you are too hot, you can do
   this," unzipping both sides, twisting and pulling up the sweatshirt so
   it now looked like an oversized scarf nonchalantly thrown over the
   shoulders, "and then you look like a Japanese designer."

   Back at the preview Kuwata threw the aforementioned blazer, that will
   be custom-made on Saville Row and cost god knows what, on the floor,
   and in a few swift gestures folded it, like a sweater, along the
   perma-creases running down and across. Though the blazer was
   meticulously constructed - its interlining alone takes double the time
   to make than the standard one - it had an ease to it that modern life
   requires. Kuwata is an avid traveler (and a fisherman), and one of the
   first world problems he tries to solve with his versatile designs is
   overpacking. Hence, garments with built in multifunctionality.

   Another first world problem Kuwata is concerned with is our constant
   complaining (guilty as charged). And it is true that by historical
   standards we live in unprecedentedly good times, which many of us don't
   appreciate. Our lives are fast and furious, and as shallow as those
   silly motor films. To remind us to slow down and to be more
   considerate, Kuwata put on his show at Biblioteca Nazionale Di Firenze,
   and he called it, `I WANT LESS, AND LESS THAN THAT." He urged us to put
   down our phones and pick up a book, an advice few will heed. But there
   is a romanticism in this futility that is alluring (at least to me).

   There is a quiet romanticism in his clothes as well, a softness that is
   welcome in a world that feels increasingly coarse. It was on display at
   the SETCHU show later that evening, as models walked slowly down the
   runway, sometimes in groups of two and three, their heels softly
   click-clacking on the polished stone floor, the garments twisting
   around their bodies without contorting them. The starting point of this
   collection was a square, the most simple of shapes, around which Kuwata
   built an entire wardrobe. The results were fascinating to look at;
   blazers so soft that they could be tucked into pants, dress shirts that
   could be buttoned in a myriad of ways to form a variety of shapes. Some
   of the most compelling items were the simplest ones, zippered hooded
   sweatshirts that were transformed into skirts and capes -- it is rare
   to see something so common given a truly new form and function.

   Though the show was good, it was evident that Kuwata was right when he
   said that the runway is not the right format for his clothes; the sum
   of its parts did not add up to something greater. But as an experiment
   it proved that SETCHU is best experienced one on one, in an intimacy
   that the conversation between the wearer and the garment ultimately
   requires.

Author: Eugene Rabkin

   https://www.sz-mag.com/

   Eugene Rabkin is the founder of stylezeitgeist.com. He has contributed
   articles on fashion and culture to The Business of Fashion, Vogue
   Russia, Buro247, the Haaretz Daily Newspaper, and other publications.
   He has taught critical writing and fashion writing courses at Parsons
   the New School for Design.

Post navigation

   PreviousPrevious post:The StyleZeitgeist Guide to Kyoto: 2025
   EditionNextNext post:AURALEE FALL / WINTER 2025

Latest Posts from Category

   Unpacking Kering's Earnings
   Apr 23, 2025

   OUTLAWS: Fashion Renegades Of Leigh Bowery's 1980s London
   Apr 23, 2025

   StyleZeitgeist Podcast: What Luxury? with Robert Williams
   Apr 17, 2025

   Duran Lantink's Appointment to Gaultier Proves That Contemporary
   Fashion Is a Simulation
   Apr 15, 2025

   Trump, the Unwitting Sustainability Warrior
   Apr 11, 2025

   StyleZeitgeist Podcast: NEMESIS with Emily Segal
   Apr 4, 2025

   [svg%3E] [footer-logo.png]
     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store

   Footer Menu

   © 2025, All Rights Reserved.
   Go to Top

   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
