
   [ ]

     *
     *
     *

   All Rights ReservedView Non-AMP Version
   Type your search query and hit enter: 1___________________
   ____________________ Search

   Retail

The StyleZeitgeist Guide to Antwerp : 2025 Edition

   It is hard to believe that we have not updated our Antwerp guide since
   2013, what with it being one of my favorite cities in Europe. What
   keeps pulling me back to this city, besides professional obligations?
   Fashion, obviously, as well as a mix of medieval and contemporary
   architecture, with some Art Nouveau buildings thrown in for good
   measure, in a place that can be traversed in one long walk. Antwerp has
   a sense of the quiet and the unpretentious mixed with the cosmopolitan.
   Design is in Antwerp's blood, and it punches way above its weight. It
   is also one of the few cities that is spared the waves of mass tourism.

   Antwerp changes constantly. Since my first visit in 2001, when I
   stuffed my backpack into a locker at the stunning Antwerp Central
   Station just to go shop, many designers have gone out of business, and
   their shops closed. I still miss the Veronique Branquinho shop, with
   its VB door handle that is still there, and the Walter Van Beirendonck
   shop with its amazing circular cash wrap suspended from the ceiling and
   manned by his aunt. But new stores have opened in their stead and the
   city is ever vibrant and never ceases to surprise.

   And so, without further ado is a list of my favorite places. As I
   mentioned, Antwerp is small - hence, I am not subdividing it into walks
   or organizing by neighborhoods as I do with larger cities.


   /SEE

   For its size, Antwerp has no shortage of wonderful museums and
   cathedrals.

   MOMU FASHION MUSEUM

   De Kathedraal

   Antwerp's main cathedral is a wonder to behold, as are the two main
   squares around it. The hefty 12 euro admission does get you a chance to
   look at four Paul Rubens paintings, two of which were painted
   specifically for the cathedral. (Website)

   Museum Plantin-Moretus

   This stunningly preserved 16th Century printing house is my favorite
   museum in Antwerp and the city's best-kept secret. Tucked away in a
   small square in the center of town, this jewel of preservation, with
   intact machines and various printing implements, provides a total look
   into how a printing house operated centuries ago. The living quarters
   are also well-preserved and its collection of books and graphics is
   formidable. (Website)

   MoMu

   Around the corner from Plantin-Moretus is MoMu, Antwerp's renowned
   fashion museum that puts on some of the best fashion exhibits in the
   world. Naturally, the focus is often on Belgian designers, which is not
   a complaint but a compliment, but it also happily expands beyond its
   homeland confines. (Website)

   KMSKA

   The Royal Museum of Fine Arts reopened in 2022 after a 100 million euro
   renovation that took eleven years. That's a lot of time and a lot of
   money, which brought back one of the grand institutions of Flemish art
   that is well worth visiting. All of the grand Flemish masters are
   well-represented here, as you might expect. (Website)

   M HKA

   Antwerp is not all about Flemish masters - after all, some of the best
   contemporary artists, such as Luc Tuymans, Berlinde De Bruyckere, and
   Michael Borremans, hail from the Flemish region - and this museum of
   contemporary art is there to remind you of this fact.

   Kloosterstraat

   If antiques is your cup of tea you will be in heaven in Kloosterstraat,
   which is regularly raided by antiques dealers and interior designers
   from London and Paris who then resell the stuff for double the price.
   Kloosterstraat is where the antique shops are concentrated, and since I
   can never remember their names, I advise you to simply walk up and down
   the street.

   Zurenborg

   Some time at the beginning of the 20th Century, the story goes, a
   visionary developer bought a large parcel of land in Antwerp's suburb
   of Berchem and told a bunch of architects to go to town. The result is
   several blocks of absolutely stunning buildings in the Art Nouveau,
   Gothic Revival, Tudor, and other fin-de-siecle styles. If this
   neighborhood was in any major city, it would be mobbed with tourists.
   Here, you will have it all to yourself. I cannot stress enough that
   this is not to be missed, even if it's away from the town center.


   /SHOP

   For the city of its size, the amount and level of shopping in Antwerp,
   from antiques and vintage to high-end, almost makes no sense. But it is
   a rich town with taste, and local spending power is buttressed by the
   influx of moneyed Dutch tourists.

   -FASHION-

   GARDEN ANTWERP

   Atelier Solarshop

   This store is run by the Belgian designer Jan Jan Van Essche. But it's
   more than a boutique with a comprehensive collection of his offerings,
   it's a window into his singular world, with hard to find Japanese
   brands like Mittan, jewelry by Stephanie Schneider, and objects that
   Jan Jan and Pietro pick up on their extensive travels in less traveled
   parts of the world. (Website)

   Kievit / Daniel Andresen

   The German, Antwerp-based knitwear master Daniel Andresen took over a
   disused apothecary in the North-East part of Antwerp a few years ago to
   open his own store, Kievit. It is a splendid space, and Andresen's
   knitting atelier is right behind it, a total farm-to-table model.
   (Website)

   Garden

   This newcomer to Antwerp's burgeoning retail scene is well-stocked with
   avant-garde brands such as Elena Dawson, John Alexander Skelton, and
   Archivio J.M. Ribot. The 19th Century white-washed, marble-accented
   space is grand and inviting and the staff are both knowledgeable and
   welcoming. (Website)

   Graanmarkt 13

   This Antwerp mainstay occupies an entire townhouse in the city center.
   The building was reworked by Vincent Van Duysen, my favorite architect,
   also Antwerp-based. It was one of the earliest stockists for Auralee,
   and has a nice selection of my favorite Belgian object-maker, Michael
   Verheyden, as well as Santa Maria Novella skincare. (Website)

   Houben

   Houben is one of those stores that can only be found in smaller cities.
   They are quirky, they cater to the loyal local clientele, they couldn't
   care less about e-commerce and they will have top tier brands that
   rarely wholesale. When I first encountered it in 2008, it was quietly
   one of the most impressive stockists for Comme des Garçons and Junya
   Watanabe. In its next iteration it had enough of Phoebe Philo's Celine
   to qualify for a shop-in-shop. These days it carries The Row, Alaia,
   and still does a healthy Thom Browne business. (Website, if you can
   call it one)

   Dries Van Noten

   Dries Van Noten's original flagship needs no introduction. It is chic,
   it is beautiful, it is a must.

   Ann Demeulemeester

   Ditto. The renovation that were supervised by Ann's husband, Patrick
   Robyn, has made an already beautiful store even more so. In addition to
   the clothes, the shop now also carries a comprehensive collection of
   Demeulemeester's tableware manufactured by Serax.

   -VINTAGE-

   Since vintage has become an industry it has taken all the fun out of
   bargain-hunting. But not everywhere. Antwerp is the only place besides
   Tokyo where I still like visiting vintage stores.

   Rosier 41

   Your vintage tour should start at Rosier 41, which has an excellent
   selection of Belgian designer and beyond. (Website)

   Labels Inc.

   The OG Antwerp vintage fashion shop. You won't find any bargains here
   anymore, but the curation is top notch. (Website)

   Vrijdagmarkt 6

   This small menswear only shop in the same square as the Plantin-Moretus
   museum is well-curated and is worth a gander. (No website)

   -INTERIOR DESIGN-

   The Flemish love their houses more than their fashion. There is a
   saying, I was told, that they are born with a brick in their stomach.
   Therefore, Antwerp has no shortage of excellent interior design shops.
   I am giving you only a couple, because, well, I cannot bring a chair in
   my suitcase, so there aren't many that I visit.

   THOMAS HAARMANN

   Thomas Haarmann

   Haarmann specializes in high end interior design and his wabi-sabi
   meets brutalism atelier is a testament to his impeccable taste.
   (Website)

   St. Vincents

   One of the most brilliantly curated interior design shops I have ever
   been to, this store-gallery spread over several gutted floors of a
   white-washed building in Central Antwerp is an absolute must. The
   offerings are decidedly high end and expensive, but this is the stuff
   interior design dreams are made of. (Website)

   Books / Records / Art

   Antwerp still has some treasures in the above department, despite
   losing Copyright, a perennial art book favorite of mine, and here are a
   few good spots worth digging through. Unsurprisingly, most are to be
   found around the Royal Academy area in the North-West.

   Panoply

   This local student favorite has a great selection of books, including
   in English language, DVDs, CDs, and records. (Website)

   Demian

   An expertly curated used and rare book and art shop. Highly recommended
   (Website)

   Anti-Quariaat

   This shop, run by one of those characters that our world can no longer
   produce, is a treasure trove of books, signed art posters, and prints.
   You can't even find it on Google maps, let alone the social media. But
   it's next to Demian, so make sure to look for it. (What website? Are
   you kidding?)


   /FOOD AND DRINK

   Produce standards in Belgium are particularly high, and the food in
   Antwerp is outstanding. When I travel, I drink like the locals, which
   in Antwerp means beer and their wonderul mint tea. I encourage you to
   do the same. Here is a selection of places I like.

   In De Roscam

   An utterly charming, local hangout with good food and beer. Super
   casual and always hopping, my longtime favorite. (No website)

   Borze Cafe

   An excellent, unassuming restaurant with fantastic classic food and
   drink menu. (Website)

   Roji

   This upscale sushi restaurant sits in a basement space designed by Axel
   Vervoordt, and the food is as good as the interior. If you don't feel
   like having a full meal, sit at the bar and stare at the roaring
   fireplace. (Website)

   Fiskebar

   A seafood stalwart that was early to the whole hipsterish
   unassuming-decor-excellent-food game, and it's still going strong.
   (Website)

   Camino

   Perhaps my favorite lunch spot in Antwerp. The pan-Asian noodle bowls
   are out of this world. Get the pork belly, obviously. (Website)

   Witzli Poetzli

   This bar is a local creative crowd watering hole right next to the
   central cathedral. A great selection of Belgian beer and a colorful
   clientele. (Bohemians don't need websites)

   Pierre Marcolini

   This Belgian chocolateier has not been a secret for more than a decade,
   but I still think he is the best and is in the pantheon of
   chocolate-making trade for a reason. (Website)

   Revista

   One of my favorite cafes, next to KMSKA and Ann Demeulemeester. Free
   wifi, a nice selection of magazines, good coffee and super fresh
   croissants and sandwiches. (Website)


   /STAY

   Antwerp has no shortage of great, well-designed, and fairly affordable
   accommodations. Remember, design is in the city's blood!

   AUGUST HOTEL

   August

   This is possibly my most favorite hotel in the world. I once told
   Vincent Van Duysen, who designed it, that it was made for me. The rooms
   are absolutely gorgeous in all of their muted glory, and the bar and
   restaurant are something to behold (and the food and drink are
   outstanding). Yes, it's on the outskirts of town, but with Uber, tram,
   and, if you so desire, a Lime scooter, you have no excuse not to stay
   here. (Website)

   Julien

   The OG Antwerp boutique hotel, and a sister property to August, it
   hasn't lost a step in all the years of its existence. Beautiful in and
   out. (Website)

   Maison Nationale

   If you don't need a full hotel setup and want a place to yourself, look
   no further than Maison Nationale Suites. These several self-service
   apartments are beautifully designed and are located right across MoMu.
   (Website)
   Share
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

   Eugene Rabkin

   Eugene Rabkin is the founder of stylezeitgeist.com. He has contributed
   articles on fashion and culture to The Business of Fashion, Vogue
   Russia, Buro247, the Haaretz Daily Newspaper, and other publications.
   He has taught critical writing and fashion writing courses at Parsons
   the New School for Design.
   Next Alaia Mugler at La Foundation Azzedine Alaia »
   Previous « EXPO JAN-JAN VAN ESSCHE - MOMU ANTWERP
   Published by
   Eugene Rabkin
   Tags: Antwerptravel guide
   Feb 20, 2025 8:07 am

Recent Posts

     * Fashion

Unpacking Kering's Earnings

   Today, Kering, the luxury conglomerate that owns Gucci, Yves Saint
   Laurent, Balenciaga, and Bottega Veneta,...
   Apr 23, 2025
     * Fashion

OUTLAWS: Fashion Renegades Of Leigh Bowery's 1980s London

   That burst of angry, youthful energy unleashed on London streets in
   1976 called punk indelibly...
   Apr 23, 2025
     * Fashion

StyleZeitgeist Podcast: What Luxury? with Robert Williams

   Apr 17, 2025
     * Fashion

Duran Lantink's Appointment to Gaultier Proves That Contemporary Fashion Is a
Simulation

   Today we woke up to the news that the up and coming designer Duran
   Lantink...
   Apr 15, 2025
     * Fashion

Trump, the Unwitting Sustainability Warrior

   Take a deep breath, and suspend your justified knee-jerk reaction at
   mentioning Trump before you...
   Apr 11, 2025
     * Culture

StyleZeitgeist Podcast: NEMESIS with Emily Segal

   Apr 4, 2025

   All Rights ReservedView Non-AMP Version

     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
