   #StyleZeitgeist » Feed StyleZeitgeist » Comments Feed StyleZeitgeist »
   The StyleZeitgeist Guide to Paris: 2025 Edition Comments Feed JSON
   oEmbed (JSON) oEmbed (XML)

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5N88NH9V

   Skip to content
   Facebook page opens in new windowInstagram page opens in new window
   Search:
   ____________________
   Go!
   $0.00

   View CartCheckout
     * No products in the cart.

   Subtotal: $0.00

   View CartCheckout

   StyleZeitgeist
   Counterculture - Fashion and Culture Magazine
   StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist
     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store
     * Academy

     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store
     * Academy

The StyleZeitgeist Guide to Paris: 2025 Edition

   By Eugene Rabkin Features/Op-Ed, Travel Feb 13, 2025
   Tags: paris guidetravel guide

          Saint Chapelle by Matthew Reeves

   On some level writing a guide to Paris is an exercise in futility. What
   can one write about a city where you can get a good glass of wine and a
   decent meal in so many places - as long as you stay away from the
   touristy areas - and where there is no such thing as the best bakery.
   Therefore, this guide to Paris is the guide to what I have gotten to
   know over the years of traveling to the City of Light.

   I've been to Paris about fifty times, I've walked it back and forth,
   and I know I am not nearly close to discovering all the goodies it has
   to offer and have not sufficiently explored all of its neighborhoods
   (for example, I rarely find myself in Montmartre, or in Charonne). I've
   not been to the 20th arrondissement, which is where the epicenter of
   hipsterdom has moved to. I have not yet been to the Catacombs (very
   ungoth of me), and I've never had any luck record shopping in Paris.

   Nevertheless, I think I have gotten a pretty good handle on the city,
   and I am happy to share it with you.

   EAT

   One of the best thing to do in Paris is eating simply. French produce
   will make you weep and want to move to Paris. The quality of produce is
   great, the meat is fantastic, the dairy divine, and the bread
   unparalleled. If weather allows, go to one of the farmers markets, like
   the one above Bastille or on Boulevard Raspail, buy a bunch of gorgeous
   vegetables, cheeses, pates, wine, and go to a park and devour it all.
   But if you can't, here are a bunch of restaurants for you. Be warned,
   quite a few are Japanese, since Paris has a serious love affair with
   Japanese cuisine.

   Bambino

   Loosely inspired by Tokyo's vinyl bars, this drinks and small plates
   spot is an open secret for a reason. Absolutely fantastic food and
   natural wines. Come at the opening on the dot or you will be waiting in
   line among the young and the hip.

   Brasserie du Louvre

   It is not easy to get a good meal this close to the Louvre because of
   all the tourist traps. But this classic from chef Paul Bocuse, located
   inside of Hotel de Louvre, delivers on all fronts, from the wine to the
   food to the service.

          Brasserie du Louvre

   Breizh Cafe

   One of the best creperies in Paris where you get real buckwheat
   galettes and not the tourist-aimed trash. The Marais location is always
   packed but the St. Germain one is quite chill. Be warned though, you'll
   be giving your money to Francois Pinault.

   Brutos

   The 11th has long been a stalwart of hipster innovative cuisine. There
   is a series number of good restaurants. Go to Brutos for the
   outstanding Sunday only whole roasted chicken lunch. Bring a friend and
   come hungry.

   Comptoir de la Mer, Comptoir de la Terre, L'Avant Comptoir

   This trio of counter-seating restaurants have turned one section of St.
   Germain into a glorious foodie haven. It's wine- and small
   plates-driven, so get a glass or a bottle and follow up with food. I'm
   partial to Comptoir de la Mer, because in Paris it's much easier to get
   good meat than seafood, but it's all outstanding.

   Cravan

   You don't have to look far for good wine in Paris, but a good cocktail
   is another matter. This is my favorite bar, and now they have opened
   one in St. Germain, so you don't have to schlep to the original in the
   16th, though if you can, do. And don't miss their snacks!

          Cravan

   Les Enfants Rouges

   This French-Japanese fusion tucked away in a small alley by the Enfants
   Rouges food market always delivers in terms of both the food and the
   atmosphere.

   French Paradox

   Never mind the silly name - this duck palace has the best confit du
   canard I've had in Paris. I mean, that's what you came to Paris for,
   right? It's situated in a lovely arcade right across from the - in my
   humble opinion - overrated Racines.

   L'As du Falafel

   Still the best falafel outside of Israel, although because of Instagram
   now you may have to wait forty minutes to get one. Pro tip - at this
   point it may be faster to join the much smaller line for eating inside.
   If you do takeaway, Places des Vosges is within walking distance.

   Le Petite Marché

   An excellent French restaurant in the heart of Marais but on a back
   street that makes you feel like you are in another neighborhood. Never
   not good.

   Le Petit Vendome

   It is hard to get an honest meal or an excellent sandwich near Place
   Vendome, whose poshness tends to make one choke on their food. Le Petit
   Vendome does both - it is mobbed during the day by the local office
   workers for a reason.

   Miznon

   If you don't want to stand in line, go next door to Miznon and get
   anything they serve in a pita, along with their incredible cauliflower.

   Ogata

   This stunning Japanese emporium is high on the veritable list of places
   that T Magazine has unwittingly ruined through overexposure. The prices
   have gone up and ability to reserve unless far in advance has gone
   down, but it remains a beautiful restaurant experience nonetheless. If
   you cannot splurge on a meal, have tea at their tea salon or a drink at
   the bar, and buy some tea or a ceramic cup from their carefully curated
   shop.

          Ogata Paris

   Sanjo

   This is my favorite ramen spot, though I usually prefer pork broth to
   chicken. But one of their specialties is Tin Tin ramen that has no
   broth at all. If you go for dinner, their wagyu is to die for.

   Siena

   If an occasion does call for a fancy meal near Vendome, I recommend
   Siena. The room is beautiful and the octopus is magical. Reserve in
   advance on weekdays, as it's a bit of a power lunch spot.

   Soma

   This tiny Japanese izakaya is so good that I almost want to do the
   Parisian thing and not give it away. But my first duty is to you, my
   audience. Pretty much everything I've had on there has always been
   divine.

   Soma Sando

   Soma's sister restaurant is sandwich-driven. Get the first one on the
   menu, pork sando for a melt-in-your-mouth katsu surrounded by delicious
   pickled vegetables and wash it down with a Japanese craft beer from
   Coedo. If you won't love life after this, there is no hope for you.


   BAKERIES

   A Paris guide without a bakery on it is a crime, so here is a short
   list, though undoubtedly I've left many great bakeries off of it.

   Brigat

   This may be my favorite bakery in Paris. Amazing croissants and bread.
   They have a few tables in the back if you need to eat there, or just
   take the food to Places des Vosges - again - and have yourself a baked
   goods picnic.

   D'Isabelle

   Sometimes TikTok is right. Best croissant I've had in Paris. Worth
   standing in line for.

   Mamiche

   Another fantastic bakery owned by two women, Victoria Effantin and
   Cécile Khayat, who source their flour locally. Everything I've tried is
   absolutely delicious. There are a couple of branches.

   Ten Belles

   This is not a typical French bakery with baguettes and croissants. The
   draw here is whole-wheat bread from local flower, and it is absolutely
   delicious. You can still get scones and a very good cup of coffee if
   you are looking for a good breakfast.


   COFFEE

   For the longest time it was hard to get good coffee in Paris, but if
   find yourself in the Williamsburg parts of Paris - roughly, the 3rd,
   the 10th, and the 11th arrondissements, there is now an abundance of
   good coffee spots. Here are a few of them.

   Dreamin' Man

   Best coffee in Paris that for some reason draws an inordinate amount of
   fashion people. It's become much more popular since they opened the
   second outpost at the Broken Arm boutique, but I still prefer the
   rustic feel of the original.

   The Coffee

   All white and vaguely Japanese in inspiration, there are several
   branches, equally good. I could do without the gimmicky ordering
   screens, but it's a small gripe - the coffee is very good.

   Recto Verso

   Another good coffee spot in the Marais, of which there are now many.

   Arabica %

   This growing empire already had one foray into Paris but got into a
   dispute, and the existing coffee shops in the Panoramas gallery and in
   St. Germain had to be rebranded, but it's back now with a pretty shop
   on the border of Marais and the 11th.

          RICK OWENS SHOP, COURTESY OF OWENS CORP

   SHOPPING

   In the venerable StyleZeitgeist tradition these shops are arranged more
   or less by walking distance from one another. If you start in the south
   of St. Germain and slowly go north and work your way up across the
   Seine river, you'll be able to hit most of them.

   A Balzac, A Rodin

   Perhaps my favorite rare art and architecture bookstore in Paris, run
   by the loveliest father-and-son duo who are passionate about what they
   do. Digging through its treasure trove is time well-spent. You could
   find something for $400 or for $40, but it will always be good.

   Le Bon Marché

   If you go to one department store in Paris, it should be LBM. The rest
   are lowest common denominator emporiums aimed at tourists (though you
   should go to La Samaritaine to see the incredible building). LBM, on
   the other hand, caters mostly to the local St. Germain audience and its
   assortment shows. Don't miss their book and stationary department and
   their epic food market. Its only drawback, again, is that it's owned by
   LVMH, just like La Samaritaine.

   Hermés

   Next to Le Bon Marché is the most unique and my favorite branch of
   Hermés. It occupies a former swimming pool, which dictates its unusual
   layout. It also has a small cafe, and yes, it will be expensive, but
   served in a Hermés cup and is worth a treat. There is also a small book
   corner. I have not bought books there, but I imagine if you do, you
   still get to walk out with that orange bag.

   Delpire

   This bookshop from the publisher Delpire, who happens to be Sarah
   Moon's husband, is a gem of a space tucked away behind the
   Saint-Germain-des-Prés abbey. A good selection of photo books,
   including those by Moon, and good photo exhibits.

   Librairie 7L

   Karl Lagerfeld's bookstore is also a must. It's very well curated, in
   part because Lagerfeld had a very special relationship with Steidl, one
   of the best photo book publishers in the world. You may notice a smoked
   glass door while you are there; this used to be an entry to Lagerfeld's
   office.

   Dries Van Noten

   The three Dries Van Noten shops- women's, mens, and beauty - are
   adjacent to each on Quai Malaquais, facing the Seine. All are lovely
   jewel boxes that are absolutely worth a visit.

   Rick Owens

   Owens's first boutique is in Palais Royal and is worth a visit for its
   assortment and for that statue that was first of many. It is now twice
   the sizes of the original space, and I still find it charming in its
   own way.

   L'Eclaireur Rue Herold

   If you read StyleZeitgeist, you probably know it already, but if you
   don't, this is the OG spot for the fashion avant-garde. It is one of
   the biggest stockists for Carol Christian Poell, Paul Harnden, and
   Boris Bidjan Saberi, among others.

   Mad et Len

   The StyleZeitgeist universe is incomplete without a Mad et Len black
   iron candle or one of their wonderful perfumes. As a matter of fact one
   of their best-sellers, Asphalt & Rose in a candle, and Apocalypstick in
   perfume, was originally created for our tenth anniversary. Their only
   boutique in the beautiful Gallerie Vivienne is a little world unto its
   own.

          MAD ET LEN BY MATTEO CARCELLI

   Nose

   If you are looking to buy a perfume or a candle in Paris and don't want
   to go to multiple stores, this is your spot, a short walk from Mad et
   Len. An excellent curation of niche perfumery.

   Galerie Yvon Lambert

   I swear it's the last book shop on this list. Listen, be happy that I
   did not put Ofr on it, though you should probably go there too,
   especially if you are looking for magazines.

   Perfumer H

   Lyn Harris's perfumery has become one of my favorites, and its lower
   Marais boutique is a lovely glimpse into her universe.

   SEE

   Paris is a treasure trove of museums and sights. I'm omitting the most
   obvious museums here, such as the Louvre, Musée D'Orsay, and Centre
   George Pompidou, for the obvious reason that you should obviously visit
   them.

   Jardin de Luxembourg

   My favorite park in central Paris, prettier than the plainer and far
   more touristy Jardin Tulieri. Always worth a stroll or a picnic in good
   weather.

   Place des Vosges

   This lovely square in Marais is a hidden gem. Remember what I told you
   about picnicking.

   Museé Galliera

   Paris's fashion museum that does a consistently excellent job curating
   major fashion exhibits.

   Palais de Tokyo / Musee d'art Moderne de Paris

   Across from Galliera are a pair of museums worth visiting, and I really
   should not be lumping them together, but they are literally across from
   each other. The museum of modern art does not need much introduction,
   because it is what it is. Palais de Tokyo is a fun place though, with
   an excellent bookshop, cafe, and restaurant, and is worth spending some
   time in. And you can see the amazing courtyard where Rick Owens stages
   all of his spring/summer shows.

   Foundation Azzedine Alaia

   After Alaia passed away, the building that housed his studio was turned
   into a foundation. It contains a charming exhibition space, a cafe, and
   a bookshop. The clincher is that the foundation kept Alaia's studio
   intact, and you can look into it through a window now, a touching site.

          Foundation Azeddine Alaia

   Atelier Brancusi

   If you go to Pompidou, and even if you don't go to Pompidou, don't miss
   the Constantin Brancusi Studio that sits on the edge of the museum's
   complex. It is a faithful recreation of the atelier complete with many
   statues, instruments, and ephemera. It's never crowded and it has
   become my personal oasis, where you can sit on the bench and meditate
   on Brancusi's modernist masterpieces.

Author: Eugene Rabkin

   https://www.sz-mag.com/

   Eugene Rabkin is the founder of stylezeitgeist.com. He has contributed
   articles on fashion and culture to The Business of Fashion, Vogue
   Russia, Buro247, the Haaretz Daily Newspaper, and other publications.
   He has taught critical writing and fashion writing courses at Parsons
   the New School for Design.

Post navigation

   PreviousPrevious post:SHOP.CASE -- a.PRESSENextNext post:EXPO JAN-JAN
   VAN ESSCHE - MOMU ANTWERP

Latest Posts from Category

   What Karl Marx Can Teach Us About the Current State of Fashion
   Mar 27, 2025

   The StyleZeitgeist Guide to Antwerp : 2025 Edition
   Feb 20, 2025

   The StyleZeitgeist Tokyo Guide: 2025 Edition
   Feb 6, 2025

   PARIS MENS FALL / WINTER 2025 SHOWROOM REPORT
   Jan 30, 2025

   MEN'S FALL / WINTER 2025 PARIS FASHION WEEK REPORT
   Jan 29, 2025

   AT PITTI UOMO SETCHU ASKS MORE OF US BY ASKING LESS
   Jan 17, 2025

   [svg%3E] [footer-logo.png]
     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store

   Footer Menu

   © 2025, All Rights Reserved.
   Go to Top

   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
