   #StyleZeitgeist » Feed StyleZeitgeist » Comments Feed StyleZeitgeist »
   The StyleZeitgeist Guide to Kyoto: 2025 Edition Comments Feed JSON
   oEmbed (JSON) oEmbed (XML)

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5N88NH9V

   Skip to content
   Facebook page opens in new windowInstagram page opens in new window
   Search:
   ____________________
   Go!
   $0.00

   View CartCheckout
     * No products in the cart.

   Subtotal: $0.00

   View CartCheckout

   StyleZeitgeist
   Counterculture - Fashion and Culture Magazine
   StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist
     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store
     * Academy

     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store
     * Academy

The StyleZeitgeist Guide to Kyoto: 2025 Edition

   By Eugene Rabkin Features/Op-Ed, Travel Jan 16, 2025
   Tags: City GuideKyotoTravel

          Panoramic View of Kyoto

   To say that Kyoto is a magical city is like saying that Francis Bacon
   is a great artist - neither words nor pictures can relate the firsthand
   experience. The feeling of peace that washes over you as you stroll the
   zen gardens or feel the wooden floors of Buddhist temples creak under
   your unshod feet. Even the hordes of tourists cannot spoil the
   experience if you are in the right mindset. There is no season when
   Kyoto is not full of visitors, or at least I have not experienced it.
   There are ways to avoid them somewhat by visiting the smaller temples,
   but no way to avoid them by visiting the bigger ones, but visit them
   you must, at least on your first trip. But you would also be missing
   out if you viewed Kyoto as just a temple destination; exploring its
   rich fabric of shops, restaurants, and a maze of architecture is a joy
   in itself. If you want to do it right, you'd probably need a week or
   so.

   I divide this guide roughly into central and North Kyoto to minimize
   time spent getting around the city. Kyoto is bigger than it seems, so I
   highly suggest mapping out your routes. Also, because everything is
   open Friday - Sunday, when it's most touristy, many businesses are
   closed during the week on random days, so check on Google maps, their
   websites, or their Instagram accounts.

   In this guide there will be more ceramics shops rather than clothing,
   since most likely you'll do most of your clothes shopping in Tokyo. The
   few clothing shops I recommend carry the stuff you cannot easily find
   elsewhere. I also include a couple of smaller, less visited temples, as
   the main ones can be easily found.

   I offer a selection of restaurants, but you will note the absence of
   bars. It's not because there are no good bars in Kyoto, but because I
   am usually exhausted by dinner time. Sorry.

   CENTRAL KYOTO:

   Art

          Kyoto City KYOCERA Museum of Art

   KYOTO CITY KYOCERA MUSEUM OF ART - this splendid museum dedicated to
   Japanese craft went through a total renovation a short while ago, and
   is worth a visit as much for the building itself as for its beautiful
   collection.

   KANJIRO'S HOUSE - a perfectly preserved traditional house (machiya) /
   workshop of one of Japan's great ceramicists is a joy to behold, a
   testament to the beauty of Japanese craftsmanship.

   Temples

   KOMYOIN - a lovely temple with a beautiful garden and a tea house where
   you can have a nice bowl of matcha and a sweet while overlooking a
   traditional zen garden.

   Shops - ceramic

          POJ Studio Kyoto

   ESSENCE - this small gallery near the Kyocera Art Museum should
   probably be your first stop, as their selection of ceramics by Japanese
   artisans is consistently excellent, as is their selection of teas.

   POJ Studio - housed in a machiya in Highashiyama, this carefully
   curated gallery has a bit of everything and is absolutely worth a
   visit.

   KYO AMAHARE - another expertly curated ceramics and housewares gallery
   that sells everything from cups to iron kettles. There is also a tea
   room framed by a zen garden that is absolutely worth a visit (reserve
   in advance).

   HIGASHIYA / OGATA - the Ogata empire keeps growing, and we are here for
   it. This Kyoto branch is in the newly opened (and very expensive)
   Shinmonzen hotel renovated by Tadao Ando. Buy some exquisite pottery,
   tea, and sweets, and / or have an afternoon tea in a tranquil space
   overlooking a lovely canal.

          KYO AMAHERE Photographer: Satoshi Asakawa

   Shops - clothing

   T.T. - Taiga Takashi's Kyoto store in Gion is a wonder to behold. The
   interior is beautiful, and so are his workwear-inspired, roomily cut
   menswear that blends fine and rough natural fabrics.

   AMPLAMP - a small boutique that has a carefully curated selection of
   Japanese menswear brands like Buzz Rickson and NAME. I did not get to
   visit its sister store, PROPHET, but I imagine it is equally as good.

   BARD - this is one of those small stores that exist all over Japan that
   you wonder about how they exist carrying five-ten brands. It has a nice
   selection of Paul Harnden, Guidi, Casey Casey, and a few other brands.

   ARTS & SCIENCE - Sonya Park's mini-empire of impeccably curated shops
   is well-represented in Tokyo with five small, exquisite stores carrying
   its own clothing line plus household objects. You know those stores
   that are so well-done that you want to buy everything, regardless of
   whether you need it or not? A&S is one of them.

   Shops - other

   HOSOO - this historic family-run fabric business does some of the most
   mind-blowing textiles I've ever seen, and the likes of Gucci and LVMH
   have already noticed them. Their flagship gallery is in Kyoto and is
   absolutely worth a visit.

   Y & SONS - this company specializes in traditional Japanese mens dress
   made from absolutely stunning fabrics mostly developed in house. If you
   ever wanted a haori jacket, this is the place to go. They also
   collaborate with brands like Graphpaper and Norwegian Rain. Even if you
   are not interested in buying one, it's absolutely worth a visit, as
   there are beautiful bags, scarves, and knitwear mixed in with the more
   traditional offerings.

   MEDIA SHOP - an expertly well-curated bookshop concentration on art,
   photography, interior design, and architecture. There is also an art
   gallery on the second floor.

   NAKAGAWA MASASHICHI SHOTEN - hailing from Nara, this is one of those
   stores where you go in and realize there is all this lovely stuff that
   you never knew you needed. It's also a prefect stop for buying omiyage,
   the small gifts that you bring back from Japan for your friends and
   family.

   ANGERS - another general goods store full of socks, scarves, notebooks,
   and pens that will make your life complete.

   Restaurants

          Dupree Kyoto

   SUGARI RAMEN - it is rather silly to look for the "best" ramen in
   Japan, because it ranges from good to fabulous, unless you are in an
   obviously super touristy area. I like this spot as much for its
   impeccable restaurant design as for their ramen, which you will be
   eating out of hammered metal bowls.

   ISAMI SUSHI - this shockingly inexpensive sushi spot run by a
   master-chef father and his son may not have one of those mind-bending
   cuts of fish at those $150 omakase restaurants, but it's excellent
   nonetheless and utterly charming in its unpretentiousness.

   DUPREE - if you want to eat nothing but Japanese food in Kyoto, I
   understand, but you will also be missing out. This French restaurant is
   absolutely outstanding, from its lovely interior, to their excellent
   collection of jazz records, to the exquisite food and a beautiful
   selection of natural wines.

   KI KYOTO - this Mediterranean spot is excellent from start to finish.

   VERMILLION CAFE - two things are not easy to find in Japan, a full
   Western style breakfast and vegan / vegetarian food. Vermillion Cafe
   does both well, and its outside space overlooks a beautiful pond. The
   spot has been blown and it's full of gaijin, not least because it's
   next to Fushimi Inari shrine, but that has not compromised the
   experience. Most people will order the excellent Vermillion breakfast
   plate here, but don't sleep on their amazing hummus with seasonal
   vegetables and other vegetable-centered offerings.

   Coffee / Tea

   Just like with ramen, looking for the best cup of coffee in Japan is
   useless. Even their Starbuck is pretty damn good. So if you see an
   indie spot with a good coffee machine, just go. Nevertheless, I'm
   throwing in a few of my favorites.

   SOT - a small independent roastery in Higashiyama that serves an
   excellent cup of coffee and sells its own beans.

   FUKU ROASTERY - even smaller than SOT, with just a couple of tiny
   benches, run by a true coffee fanatic who roasts beans from from all
   over the world right behind the tiny counter. Some beans are roasted
   with whisky, rum, and sake. You should come here if you are a pour-over
   fan - this is not a latte spot. And you will most likely end up buying
   beans for your home.

   Blue Bottle Higashiyama - Tokyo and Kyoto has no shortage of beautiful
   Blue Bottle locations, but this was my favorite. It will be crowded and
   full of tourists, but worth it if you are in the area.

   0MA - it's a bit out of the way, but it's an unforgettable tea ceremony
   experience run by a young master who refurbished a machiya that is zen
   beyond zen.

   NORTHERN KYOTO:

   Shops

   MITTAN - this Kyoto-based brand mixes the traditional and the modern,
   with roomy, comfortable clothing made from natural materials. They also
   make beautiful blankets.

   STARDUST KANA - you should come here for the beautifully rustic cafe
   that serves lovely cakes and tea, which you will need to reserve, and
   stay for the small selection of clothing by the likes of Mittan and
   Jan-Jan Van Essche, as well as their fantastic Chinese tea selection.
   They also have an art gallery nearby called Elbereth.

   KAMISOE - this tiny shop that specializes in karakami, the traditional
   art of hand printing decorative paper using woodblocks, sells almost
   nothing, but it's a really special place. You will want their hand-made
   greeting cards, which you will use for very special occasions.

   Temples

   Kinkakuji - The Golden Pavillion is touristy but worth visiting. It's
   absolutely stunning.

   Restaurants

   AMAN LIVING PAVILLION - frankly I hesitate to recommend it, because the
   food is 7 out of 10 and expensive, but it is a way to experience a
   glimpse of Aman if you want to. You will be dining in a beautiful room
   and can enjoy a partial view of the property. During my lunch, the
   dessert was the best part, so you are probably better off doing an
   afternoon tea there, but you'll need to reserve far in advance. I've
   also heard good things about Aman's onsen, which is open to the public.

   KUSHIAGE OMOTO - deep-fried food on sticks? Technically, yes, but one
   that makes for an amazing course-meal in a lovely spot run by a husband
   and wife duo, with a small but excellent sake selection. It's one of
   those intimate experiences you won't forget, starting with a salad that
   will remind you what vegetables should really taste like and ending
   with excellent dessert.

   Kyoto Hotels

   Like with everything else, I am only recommending the hotels I've
   stayed in. I love staying in Higashiyama, as it is both central enough
   and out of the way enough, so it is quiet and largely devoid of
   tourists.

   TASSEL HOTEL - a lovely, inexpensive hotel in Higashiyama that is
   almost too good to be true for the prices they charge. Spotlessly
   clean, comfortable, with the breakfast room overlooking a small canal.

   JUNMEI HIGASHIYAMA - a bit pricier than Tassel, but an absolutely
   gorgeous experience worth every penny and then some. The rooms are
   spacious, beautiful, and all come with an onsen. Impeccable service and
   you will want to experience the traditional Japanese breakfast at the
   hotel's restaurant, which you will need to reserve in advance. If you
   want to stay more central, they have a sister hotel by the imperial
   palace, which I imagine is every bit as good as that one.

   Practical tips:

   Don't be a dumb gaijin and respect local customs. Don't be loud, be
   cognizant of personal space, and learn a few phrases in Japanese, like
   greetings and thanks. Contrary to popular belief, few Japanese speak
   English. Google Translate is your friend.

   Take out cash. While Japan has made huge strides in accepting credit
   cards, many smaller restaurants are still cash only.

   Make reservations for restaurants well in advance. Many are small and
   fill up quickly.

   Get an IC transit card, like Suica or Pasmo. You can now simply create
   a virtual one on your phone from your Apple Wallet (and I imagine the
   Android equivalent as well).

   Taxis are fairly inexpensive in Kyoto, so use them. You can hail one or
   you can sign up for Didi, the Uber equivalent. Or you can take the bus,
   for which you can pay with coins or a 1,000 yen bill, or with an IC
   card.

   Bring nice socks, because you will be in plenty situations that require
   you to take your shoes off.

   Avoid food / drink to go, because just like in Tokyo, it is painfully
   hard to find trash bins. Sit down and relax even at the most casual
   spots - you will need rest anyway.

   Bring a half-empty suitcase, because you will inevitably overbuy.

Author: Eugene Rabkin

   https://www.sz-mag.com/

   Eugene Rabkin is the founder of stylezeitgeist.com. He has contributed
   articles on fashion and culture to The Business of Fashion, Vogue
   Russia, Buro247, the Haaretz Daily Newspaper, and other publications.
   He has taught critical writing and fashion writing courses at Parsons
   the New School for Design.

Post navigation

   PreviousPrevious post:EYN VAS:NextNext post:AT PITTI UOMO SETCHU ASKS
   MORE OF US BY ASKING LESS

Latest Posts from Category

   What Karl Marx Can Teach Us About the Current State of Fashion
   Mar 27, 2025

   The StyleZeitgeist Guide to Antwerp : 2025 Edition
   Feb 20, 2025

   The StyleZeitgeist Guide to Paris: 2025 Edition
   Feb 13, 2025

   The StyleZeitgeist Tokyo Guide: 2025 Edition
   Feb 6, 2025

   PARIS MENS FALL / WINTER 2025 SHOWROOM REPORT
   Jan 30, 2025

   MEN'S FALL / WINTER 2025 PARIS FASHION WEEK REPORT
   Jan 29, 2025

   [svg%3E] [footer-logo.png]
     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store

   Footer Menu

   © 2025, All Rights Reserved.
   Go to Top

   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
