   #StyleZeitgeist » Feed StyleZeitgeist » Comments Feed StyleZeitgeist »
   Superfine: Tailoring Black Style at the Met Museum in New York Comments
   Feed JSON oEmbed (JSON) oEmbed (XML)

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5N88NH9V

   Skip to content
   Facebook page opens in new windowInstagram page opens in new window
   Search:
   ____________________
   Go!
   $0.00

   View CartCheckout
     * No products in the cart.

   Subtotal: $0.00

   View CartCheckout

   StyleZeitgeist
   Counterculture - Fashion and Culture Magazine
   StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist
     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store
     * Academy

     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store
     * Academy

Superfine: Tailoring Black Style at the Met Museum in New York

   By Karlo Steel Fashion May 9, 2025
   Tags: Karlo SteelThe Met

          Photo © The Metropolitan Museum of Art

   Superfine, an exhibition on Black dandyism which opens this Saturday at
   The Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, presents a history of Black
   style through the lense of dandyism, emphasizing the importance of
   sartorial style to Black identity formation in the Atlantic diaspora
   and the ways Black designers have interpreted and reimaged this
   history. The exhibition aims to highlight the various styles one could
   employ in order to be identified as a dandy: from austere minimalism to
   hyper-colorful tailoring, from deconstructed denim to high tech
   sportswear, dispelling the stereotype of flamboyance being the only
   indicator of dandyism.

          Untitled (Christian in Wales Bonner) . Photo © Tyler Mitchell
          2025

   The Met does a remarkable job with the historical legacy of dandyism by
   including artifacts from the giants of the African diaspora, like
   Frederick Douglass' tailcoat, a photograph of an immaculately dressed
   W.E.B DuBois at the 1900 Paris International Exposition, and paintings
   of Toussaint Louverture, the Haitian revolutionary responsible for
   establishing the foundation for the first democratic republic in the
   Americas, as well as lesser known designers like Jeffrey Banks and
   Morty Sills, whose dedication to tailoring was responsible for the
   GQ-like suaveness of menswear in the 1970s and 1980s.

          Frederick Douglass , America n, ca. 1885; The Rubel Collection,
          Gift of William Rubel, 2001 ( 2001.756 ). Photo © The
          Metropolitan Museum of Art

   However, at just thirty five, the selection of contemporary Black
   designers' work representative of dandyism within the exhibition is
   small, a mere fraction of the hundreds of fashion houses populating
   America and Europe. Some designers, like Pyer Moss, are no longer in
   operation. Others, like Balmain, Wales Bonner, Bianca Saunders and
   3.Paradis were allotted four looks each. Louis Vuitton, the show's main
   sponsor, had five, not including the various accessories owned by Andre
   Leon Talley, the Black dandy par excellence. Some of the outfits
   presented could only be considered dandy if you squinted, their style
   too quotidian without a body to animate it. A few were clearly not of
   the highest quality; flimsy wools and visible seams made a regrettable
   impression given the show is meant to highlight the extraordinary
   stylistic expressions of Blackness.

          André Leon Talley 5th Avenue , Arthur Elgort (American, b orn
          1940), 1986 ; The Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, The
          Irene Lewisohn Costume Reference Library.

   While The Met's Costume Institute may have had good intentions by
   underscore the undeniable influence Black dandyism has had on style and
   fashion, it unintentionally revealed the dearth of Black designers at
   the helm of fashion houses today, giving one pause to consider why that
   is the case.

   Upon entering the exhibit, one is greeted with a deconstructed
   greatcoat by John Galliano for Dior worn by Talley. It is a spectacular
   example of both high craftsmanship and high design, showing what can be
   achieved when creativity has the backing of a monied house. There were
   other examples scattered throughout the show: the paired back luxe of
   Maximillian Davis at Ferragamo, the unapologetic glam of Olivier
   Rousteing at Balmain, the flamboyant tuxedo of outsized proportions by
   Ib Kamara at Louis Vuitton, which he dedicated to the memory of Virgil
   Abloh, who died before his last collection was finished, and the
   striking anatomical overstitching on tailored jackets by Kamara at Off
   White. Kamara is one of the most in-demand stylists and was a close
   collaborator of Abloh, which explains both of these credits, and his
   presence at the exhibit confirms his remarkably swift ascent within the
   fashion industry as a formidably talented image-maker.

          Cosmopolitanism, Gallery View. Photo © The Metropolitan Museum
          of Art.

   Pop culture, on which Black artists have exercised outsize influence,
   also gets short shrift. There is one frilly blouse from Prince, a dandy
   personified, an angular, sequined jacket worn by disco queen Sylvester,
   and a tailcoat designed by Jean Paul Gaultier worn by Grace Jones in
   2012 (the Armani jacket she wore on the iconic cover of her 1981 album
   Nightclubbing was not on view). There was nothing from the
   magnificently pompadoured Little Richard, the man who practically
   invented rock and roll, no velvet plushness or antique military jackets
   from guitar hero Jimi Hendrix, none of the foxy fabulousness of Sly
   Stone's black leather and studs jumpsuits, or the wiggy expressions of
   Andre 3000, or the nerdy chic of Tyler The Creator.

          Unknown (American). [Studio Portrait], 1940s - 50s. Gelatin
          silver print. The Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York,
          Twentieth - Century Photography Fund, 2015 (2015.330).

   The Harlem Renaissance, arguably the apex of Black dandyism, was given
   fractured attention throughout the show. The era's convergence of
   music, art, literature, photography and queer culture produced a
   flowering of stylistic inventions recognized globally both now and
   then. Highlighting the importance of that cultural watershed, its
   reverberations and artifacts still very much with us, could have served
   as touchstone to the exhibition's theme, an easy entry point to those
   unaware of its significance or to Black dandyism.

          Jook, Gallery View. Photo © The Metropolitan Museum of Art.

   Somewhat inexplicably, the show closed with looks by Latino designers
   Willy Chavarria and Luar. It is unclear as to why they were included in
   a show on Black dandyism, as both have stated that their work is
   inspired by various Latino communities. Yes, there were non-Black
   designers included in the show (like the aforementioned Galliano) but
   they were included within a context of Blackness. Chavarria and Luar's
   inclusion underscores how Blackness is often viewed as porous and
   non-exclusive. It made for a questionable closing.

          Jook, Gallery View. Left: Ensemble, Maximilian Davis (English,
          b. 1995) for Salvatore Ferragamo (Italian, founded 192 7),
          spring/summer 2023; Courtesy Salvatore Ferragamo . Center: Hat,
          Philip Treacy (Irish, b. 1966 ), fall /winter 2020 - 21 ;
          Courtesy Philip Treacy . Tailcoat worn by Grace Jones, fall/
          winter 2011 - 12 haute couture ; Grace Jones Collection. Photo ©
          The Metropolitan Museum of Art Right: Suit, Olivier Rousteing
          (French, b. 1985) for House of Balmain (French, founded 1945) ,
          fall/winter 2024 - 25 ; Courtesy Balmain.

   Before exiting through the gift shop, I turned around to admire the
   impressively dynamic set design by Torkwase Dyson, undoubtedly one of
   the most accomplished artists working today. Her arresting,
   architectural forms: geometric, monolithic, and monochrome, were
   illuminated to dazzling effect by cold white lighting (certain
   perspectives in the show gave the impression of being in a German
   Expressionist film). Dyson, who says her `hyper shapes come out of a
   study on the period of Black folks coming out of slavery," was an
   excellent choice to imbue Superfine with an unflinching modernity
   synonymous with the Black dandy who rises, phoenix like,

   in all of their splendor, as the beacon of beauty in times of
   instability and uncertainty. I only wished there was more fashion on
   par with Dyson's vision.

   _______________

   Superine: Tailoring Black Style, on view through October 26th, 2025

   All images courtesy of The Museum of Metropolitan Art

Author: Karlo Steel

Post navigation

   PreviousPrevious post:Unpacking Kering's Earnings

Latest Posts from Category

   Unpacking Kering's Earnings
   Apr 23, 2025

   OUTLAWS: Fashion Renegades Of Leigh Bowery's 1980s London
   Apr 23, 2025

   StyleZeitgeist Podcast: What Luxury? with Robert Williams
   Apr 17, 2025

   Duran Lantink's Appointment to Gaultier Proves That Contemporary
   Fashion Is a Simulation
   Apr 15, 2025

   Trump, the Unwitting Sustainability Warrior
   Apr 11, 2025

   StyleZeitgeist Podcast: NEMESIS with Emily Segal
   Apr 4, 2025

   [svg%3E] [footer-logo.png]
     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store

   Footer Menu

   © 2025, All Rights Reserved.
   Go to Top

   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
