   #next next StyleZeitgeist » Feed StyleZeitgeist » Comments Feed
   StyleZeitgeist » Posts by Eugene Rabkin Feed JSON

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5N88NH9V

   Skip to content
   Facebook page opens in new windowInstagram page opens in new window
   Search:
   ____________________
   Go!
   $0.00

   View CartCheckout
     * No products in the cart.

   Subtotal: $0.00

   View CartCheckout

   StyleZeitgeist
   Counterculture - Fashion and Culture Magazine
   StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist
     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store
     * Academy

     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store
     * Academy

Author Archives: Eugene Rabkin

   Eugene Rabkin is the founder of stylezeitgeist.com. He has contributed
   articles on fashion and culture to The Business of Fashion, Vogue
   Russia, Buro247, the Haaretz Daily Newspaper, and other publications.
   He has taught critical writing and fashion writing courses at Parsons
   the New School for Design.

Unpacking Kering's Earnings

   FashionBy Eugene RabkinApr 23, 2025

   Today, Kering, the luxury conglomerate that owns Gucci, Yves Saint
   Laurent, Balenciaga, and Bottega Veneta, among others, reported its
   first quarter earnings, and the picture of the luxury industry it
   paints is even more dire than many thought. Overall sales are down by
   14%, Gucci's sales for the first three months of 2025 are down by 25%,
   as Kering's biggest brand flounders in the wake of a creative director
   reshuffling. At Yves Saint Laurent, its second biggest brand, sales are
   down 9%. Frustratingly, Kering does not break out Balenciaga's
   earnings, as it lumps them into "Other Houses," which include McQueen,
   Brioni, and a handful of jewelry brands they own. But Kering dropped a
   couple of hints in its earnings report.

Duran Lantink's Appointment to Gaultier Proves That Contemporary Fashion Is a
Simulation

   FashionBy Eugene RabkinApr 15, 2025

   Today we woke up to the news that the up and coming designer Duran
   Lantink was appointed as the creative director of Jean Paul Gaultier.
   This completes his recent victory lap that began with sweeping a
   handful of fashion prizes, including the Andam award and the LVMH
   prize.

   And while it is commendable that a young designer gets a crack at
   spearheading one of the most important brands in the history of
   contemporary fashion, it's also worth taking a fresh look at what he
   actually makes. The artifacts that can be called garments in his oeuvre
   are pretty forgettable - there is no innovation there in terms of the
   silhouette, nor is there a strong discerning aesthetic statement.
   Lantink's true strength lies in making outlandish, sculpted outfits
   that look good on Instagram. The look from his last collection that was
   shared the most was not a garment at all, but a sculpted male bust,
   worn on a female model. Things like this are designed to go viral in
   that look-at-this-silly-thing way. They are fashion as memes.

Trump, the Unwitting Sustainability Warrior

   FashionBy Eugene RabkinApr 11, 2025

   Take a deep breath, and suspend your justified knee-jerk reaction at
   mentioning Trump before you read on, as I had to do in order to write
   this article.

   There is much debate about the economic damage of Trump's harsh tariff
   policies. Even though most tariffs have been suspended for 90 days,
   let's go ahead with the scenario in which they go into effect. Many
   outcomes are still hazy, but one thing is clear, they will likely
   decrease consumption, especially in America. And in the world of
   overconsumption, isn't that what so many of us who are concerned with
   sustainability want? The developed world, and the US especially, groans
   under the weight of cheap stuff that the current world economy,
   especially in Asia, overproduces, and that ends up in landfills. The
   cycle of planned obsolescence has sped up across the board, but
   especially in fashion, where we no longer talk about fast fashion from
   the likes of H&M, but about ultra-fast-fashion from the likes of the
   Chinese giant Shein.

What Karl Marx Can Teach Us About the Current State of Fashion

   Fashion, Features/Op-EdBy Eugene RabkinMar 27, 2025

   There's something rotten in the state of fashion. The kingdom of dreams
   seems to no longer be capable of producing them. Instead it has swamped
   its subjects in the sea of overpriced premium mediocre stuff, causing
   fatigue and boredom. What does an umpteenth collab or a logoed tee mean
   today? Nothing.

   But what does Marx's theory have to do with fashion? It helps to unpack
   one of central concepts of Das Kapital, exchange value versus use
   value. Marx's basic position is this: in the pre-capitalist economy,
   most things, including clothing, were produced by highly skilled
   artisans who were capable of crafting an object, let's say a coat, from
   start to finish, and were also likely to sell the product of their
   labor directly; which means that they fully identified with their labor
   and were invested into everything they made. By nature of their
   production, they could not make very much, and many things they made
   was quite expensive, which in turn limited the consumer's purchasing
   power. And so when the consumer did acquire an object, say the
   aforementioned coat, they would value it for its essential properties,
   such as protecting him from the elements, keeping him warm, and making
   him look presentable. Marx called this use value, the stuff that gave a
   coat its coatness, making that object real and concrete.

The StyleZeitgeist Guide to Antwerp : 2025 Edition

   Features/Op-Ed, TravelBy Eugene RabkinFeb 20, 2025Leave a comment

   It is hard to believe that we have not updated our Antwerp guide since
   2013, what with it being one of my favorite cities in Europe. What
   keeps pulling me back to this city, besides professional obligations?
   Fashion, obviously, as well as a mix of medieval and contemporary
   architecture, with some Art Nouveau buildings thrown...

The StyleZeitgeist Guide to Paris: 2025 Edition

   Features/Op-Ed, TravelBy Eugene RabkinFeb 13, 2025

   On some level writing a guide to Paris is an exercise in futility. What
   can one write about a city where you can get a good glass of wine and a
   decent meal in so many places - as long as you stay away from the
   touristy areas - and where there is no such thing as the best bakery,
   since you can only get bread that is either fine or excellent.
   Therefore, this guide to Paris is the guide to what I have gotten to
   know over the years of traveling to the City of Light.

   I've been to Paris about fifty times, I've walked it back and forth,
   and I know I am not nearly close to discovering all the good things it
   has to offer and have not sufficiently explored all of its
   neighborhoods (for example, I rarely find myself in Montmartre, or in
   Charonne, and some day I'd like to eat my way through rue des Martyrs).
   I've not been to the 20th arrondissement, which is where the epicenter
   of hipsterdom has moved to. I have not yet been to the Catacombs (very
   ungoth of me), and I've never had any luck record shopping in Paris. So
   this guide is flawed and deeply personal, and I am all ears if you want
   to add to it.

The StyleZeitgeist Tokyo Guide: 2025 Edition

   Culture, TravelBy Eugene RabkinFeb 6, 2025

   For the aesthetically inclined and designed conscious there is probably
   no better place on earth than Tokyo. And for science fiction fans it's
   probably the closest thing to encountering another humanoid
   civilization - things are similar enough and foreign enough in Tokyo to
   make it all the more exciting, even though in the last couple of years
   the intractable march of globalization of culture has left an indelible
   stamp on the city. I've been to Tokyo three times and by now feel
   confident enough to write a guide of sorts. Because there is so much to
   do and see here, I decided that the best approach is to break it down
   by neighborhood rather than the list of places, because there are too
   many of them. Tokyo is vast - don't even think about spending less than
   a week here. I'll list the neighborhoods more or less in order of
   preference or proximity to each other. Aside from these
   recommendations, the best advice I can give you is to get lost in the
   wonderful maze of Tokyo's streets - because the best spots are often in
   the back alleys off the main thoroughfares. You'll need your GPS.

Dolce & Gabbana at Grand Palais, Paris

   Culture, FashionBy Eugene RabkinJan 31, 2025

   When future historians will examine the list of crimes against humanity
   of our time, the work of Dolce & Gabbana will feature prominently, or,
   as they say in fashion, boldly. The current exhibition of the dismal
   duo's oeuvre at Grand Palais in Paris drives this point home with such
   ferocious force as to make one's eyes bleed from all the ludicrous
   pomposity on display. Mistitled Du Coeur a la Main, it should have been
   called The Kingdom of Kitsch, because that's what Domenico Dolce and
   Stefano Gabbana have built, both at their brand and with this show at
   one of the world's most venerable museums, whose stones are undoubtedly
   groaning with shame at having been burdened with so much bad taste.

PARIS MENS FALL / WINTER 2025 SHOWROOM REPORT

   Fashion, Features/Op-EdBy Eugene RabkinJan 30, 2025

   Last year I promised to lean into supporting smaller brands, and I have
   valiantly tried to visit as many showrooms as possible, so much so that
   I have not seen much of Paris this time. Each season I receive an
   avalanche of invitations, but I am just one person, so I am taking an
   opportunity to offer my apologies to those I was not able to visit. In
   general, many of the brands I've seen have stuck to their guns. This is
   fine, but it also does not provide much food for thought. Quite a few
   are struggling, but I hope that now that the so-called luxury is in
   tailspin, it's their time to come in and offer a superior product at a
   better price. There is certainly a contingent of men and women ready
   for it. And I see it as my job to connect these brands with a new
   audience. So, here it is.

MEN'S FALL / WINTER 2025 PARIS FASHION WEEK REPORT

   Fashion, Features/Op-EdBy Eugene RabkinJan 29, 2025

   This January Paris greeted us with rain and more rain. In the seven
   days I saw sun only once - proof that god hates fashion. The weather
   put a damper on a season that was already decidedly mid. If fashion is
   supposed to reflect our culture, what it tells us is that our culture
   is mired in mediocrity. Note that I did not say that it was an awful
   season, nor am I particularly disappointed, which means that I got
   exactly what I expected - mids. Pretty much all the editors I've spoken
   with this season did not expect much either. We've capitulated to
   fashion in the say way the American left has capitulated to Trump. We
   shrug our shoulders because we know what to expect. We troop from one
   show to another without much joy and without much anticipation. We are
   tired; what was once fun is starting to look an awful lot like work.
   ->12345...
   6789101112131415161718192021222324252627282930313233343536373839
   40->

   [svg%3E] [footer-logo.png]
     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store

   Footer Menu

   © 2025, All Rights Reserved.
   Go to Top

   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
