   #StyleZeitgeist » Feed StyleZeitgeist » Comments Feed JSON oEmbed
   (JSON) oEmbed (XML)

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5N88NH9V

   Skip to content
   Facebook page opens in new windowInstagram page opens in new window
   Search:
   ____________________
   Go!
   $0.00

   View CartCheckout
     * No products in the cart.

   Subtotal: $0.00

   View CartCheckout

   StyleZeitgeist
   Counterculture - Fashion and Culture Magazine
   StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist
     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store
     * Academy

     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store
     * Academy

StyleZeitgeist Volume 3 (Digital)

   1. COMME DES GARCONS - PERFUME In this article on CdG PARFUM, with
   interviews of Rei Kawakubo, Adrian Joffe, and the creative director
   Christian Astuguevieille, we examine the history and impact of Comme
   des Garcons' perfumery business. 2. A.F.VANDEVORST - INDEPENDENT An
   interview with An Vandevorst and Filip Arickx, the duo behind one of
   the few remaining iconic independent labels. 3. SARAH MOON - MEMORY AND
   DESIRE An interview-based profile of one of the most esteemed and
   fascinating photographers of the 20th Century. 4. JAMIE A women's
   editorial with Jamie Bochert. Shot in an abandoned church in Bushwick,
   Brooklyn by Jennifer Tzar. Styling, Christine de Lassus. 5. BORIS
   BIDJAN SABERI - THE BRUTAL WAY An interview-based profile of the
   German-Iranian designer working in Barcelona. 6. WERKSTATT MUNCHEN -
   WORK IN PROCESS Another in the series of photo essays highlighting
   artisanal manufacturing practices, this one of the niche German jeweler
   who produces jewelry under his own name and for Ann Demeulemeester. 7.
   FREYJA A women's editorial with Christina Kruse, based on the Norse
   goddess of love and war. Shot by Jeff Elstone. Styling, James
   Rosenthal. 8. ALEXANDER MCQUEEN - TRIPTYCH An article reviewing three
   new books on Alexander McQueen due this fall. 9. RAD HOURANI - HAUTE
   COUTURE A photo essay shot by the designer Rad Hourani during the
   making of his first, and the first ever, unisex haute couture
   collection. 10. CHRISTIAN WIJNANTS - WHITE THREAD An interview-based
   profile of the Belgian designer and the recent winner of the Woolmark
   prize. 11. THE ROAD Men's editorial shot by Baralama Heller. Styling,
   Daniel Franco. 12. HAROLD KODA AND ANDREW BOLTON - SPIDER MAN AND THE
   INVISIBLE EQUITY GUY An interview with the co-curators of the Costume
   Institute at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.
   Our arts editor, Matin Momen, catches up with the iconic photographer
   Sarah Moon in an intimate and candid conversation on her trip to New
   York last spring.
   In this women's editorial Jennifer Tzar shoots Jamie Bochert in an
   abandoned church in Bushwick, Brooklyn that is now an artist squat.
   Styled by Christine de Lassus.
   In this women's editorial named after a goddess in Norse mythology,
   photographer Jeff P. Elstone II shoots Christina Kruse on Whitebridge
   horse farm in Connecticut. Styled by James M. Rosenthal.
   In this extensive article, Eugene Rabkin and Dane Penney explore the
   world of Comme des Garcons perfumery, interviewing the designer Rei
   Kawakubo, her husband and the head of operations Adrian Joffe, and the
   creative director Christian Austeguivelle. Plus, our Parisian
   photographer Leonardo Comez-Ferenczi takes a bunch of CdG perfumes on
   an anti-beauty shoot throughout Europe.
   In this interview, Philippe Pourhashemi goes to the Antwerp studio of
   A.F.Vandevorst to find out what makes the husband-and-wife design duo
   tick. With original photography of A.F. Vandevorst's studio by Julian
   Claessens and other rare imagery.
   In this interview, our senior editor Cintra Wilson engages in a
   coversation about the state of fashion with the curators of The Costume
   Institute at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.

StyleZeitgeist Volume 3 (Digital)

   $10.00

   StyleZeitgeist Print Volume 3, originally published Fall 2012.

   Eugene Rabkin speaks with Adrian Joffe, Rei Kawakubo's husband, and the
   Comme des Garçons mastermind, about creating the brands unconventional
   perfume business. Original photography by Leonard Gomez-Ferenczi.

   Philippe Pourhashemi profiles the Belgian fashion design duo A.F.
   Vandevorst.

   Matin Momen interviews one of the most iconic fashion photographers,
   Sarah Moon.

   Derek Gallen speaks withe the fashion designer Boris Bidjan Saberi.

   We go behind the scenes for an extensive essay about the craft of
   Werkstatt:Munchen.

   Cintra Wilson speaks with Harold Koda and Andrew Bolton, the curators
   at the Costume Institute at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.

   And much more.
   StyleZeitgeist Volume 3 (Digital) quantity (BUTTON) £ 1___ (BUTTON) ¢
   (63047) Add to cart
   Category: Magazine Tag: stylezeitgeist volume three
   sharing is caring
   Pin itShare on Pinterest Share on WhatsAppShare on WhatsApp Share on
   FacebookShare on Facebook
     * Description

Description

   StyleZeitgeist Print Volume 3, originally published Fall 2012.

   Eugene Rabkin speaks with Adrian Joffe, Rei Kawakubo's husband, and the
   Comme des Garçons mastermind, about creating the brands unconventional
   perfume business. Original photography by Leonard Gomez-Ferenczi.

   Philippe Pourhashemi profiles the Belgian fashion design duo A.F.
   Vandevorst.

   Matin Momen interviews one of the most iconic fashion photographers,
   Sarah Moon.

   Derek Gallen speaks withe the fashion designer Boris Bidjan Saberi.

   We go behind the scenes for an extensive photographic essay about the
   craft of the German artisanal jeweler Werkstatt:Munchen.

   Cintra Wilson speaks with Harold Koda and Andrew Bolton, the curators
   at the Costume Institute at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.

   And much more.

   IMPORTANT: This is a digital PDF download. You will receive the
   download link upon purchase. Please note that the purchase is limited
   to one download. We highly recommend that you download to your primary
   computer.

   In this interview, Philippe Pourhashemi goes to the Antwerp studio of
          A.F.Vandevorst to find out what makes the husband-and-wife
          design duo tick. With original photography of A.F. Vandevorst's
          studio by Julian Claessens and other rare imagery. In this
          interview, Philippe Pourhashemi goes to the Antwerp studio of
          A.F.Vandevorst to find out what makes the husband-and-wife
          design duo tick. With original photography of A.F. Vandevorst's
          studio by Julian Claessens and other rare imagery.
          In this interview, Philippe Pourhashemi goes to the Antwerp
          studio of A.F.Vandevorst to find out what makes the
          husband-and-wife design duo tick. With original photography of
          A.F. Vandevorst's studio by Julian Claessens and other rare
          imagery.

   In this extensive article, Eugene Rabkin and Dane Penney explore the
          world of Comme des Garcons perfumery, interviewing the designer
          Rei Kawakubo, her husband and the head of operations Adrian
          Joffe, and the creative director Christian Austeguivelle. Plus,
          our Parisian photographer Leonardo Comez-Ferenczi takes a bunch
          of CdG perfumes on an anti-beauty shoot throughout Europe. In
          this extensive article, Eugene Rabkin and Dane Penney explore
          the world of Comme des Garcons perfumery, interviewing the
          designer Rei Kawakubo, her husband and the head of operations
          Adrian Joffe, and the creative director Christian Austeguivelle.
          Plus, our Parisian photographer Leonardo Comez-Ferenczi takes a
          bunch of CdG perfumes on an anti-beauty shoot throughout Europe.
          In this extensive article, Eugene Rabkin and Dane Penney explore
          the world of Comme des Garcons perfumery, interviewing the
          designer Rei Kawakubo, her husband and the head of operations
          Adrian Joffe, and the creative director Christian Austeguivelle.
          Plus, our Parisian photographer Leonardo Comez-Ferenczi takes a
          bunch of CdG perfumes on an anti-beauty shoot throughout Europe.

   In this women's editorial Jennifer Tzar shoots Jamie Bochert in an
          abandoned church in Bushwick, Brooklyn that is now an artist
          squat. Styled by Christine de Lassus. In this women's editorial
          Jennifer Tzar shoots Jamie Bochert in an abandoned church in
          Bushwick, Brooklyn that is now an artist squat. Styled by
          Christine de Lassus.
          In this women's editorial Jennifer Tzar shoots Jamie Bochert in
          an abandoned church in Bushwick, Brooklyn that is now an artist
          squat. Styled by Christine de Lassus.

   Our arts editor, Matin Momen, catches up with the iconic photographer
          Sarah Moon in an intimate and candid conversation on her trip to
          New York last spring. Our arts editor, Matin Momen, catches up
          with the iconic photographer Sarah Moon in an intimate and
          candid conversation on her trip to New York last spring.
          Our arts editor, Matin Momen, catches up with the iconic
          photographer Sarah Moon in an intimate and candid conversation
          on her trip to New York last spring.

   Balarama Heller shoots Carlos Santolalla in this men's editorial
          loosely based on a nomadic theme. Balarama Heller shoots Carlos
          Santolalla in this men's editorial loosely based on a nomadic
          theme.
          Balarama Heller shoots Carlos Santolalla in this men's editorial
          loosely based on a nomadic theme.

   In this women's editorial named after a goddess in Norse mythology,
          photographer Jeff P. Elstone II shoots Christina Kruse on
          Whitebridge horse farm in Connecticut. Styled by James M.
          Rosenthal. In this women's editorial named after a goddess in
          Norse mythology, photographer Jeff P. Elstone II shoots
          Christina Kruse on Whitebridge horse farm in Connecticut. Styled
          by James M. Rosenthal.
          In this women's editorial named after a goddess in Norse
          mythology, photographer Jeff P. Elstone II shoots Christina
          Kruse on Whitebridge horse farm in Connecticut. Styled by James
          M. Rosenthal.


You may also like...

     * You can order our second volume, featuring articles on PJ Harvey,
       Ann Demeulemeester, Deborah Turbeville, and more, by clicking on
       the link below. Here you'll also find pictures of the actual
       magazine. You can order our second volume, featuring articles on PJ
       Harvey, Ann Demeulemeester, Deborah Turbeville, and more, by
       clicking on the link below. Here you'll also find pictures of the
       actual magazine.
       StyleZeitgeist Volume 2 (Digital) $10.00
       Add to cart

Related products

     * StyleZeitgeist Volume 5 (Digital) StyleZeitgeist Volume 5 (Digital)
       StyleZeitgeist Volume 5 (Digital) $10.00
       Add to cart
     * You can order our fourth volume, featuring articles on Dries Van
       Noten, Maison Martin Margiela, Maurizio Amadei, Aitor Throup, and
       more, by clicking on the link below. You can order our fourth
       volume, featuring articles on Dries Van Noten, Maison Martin
       Margiela, Maurizio Amadei, Aitor Throup, and more, by clicking on
       the link below.
       StyleZeitgeist Volume 4 (Digital) $10.00
       Add to cart
     * StyleZeitgeist Volume 1 (Digital) StyleZeitgeist Volume 1 (Digital)
       StyleZeitgeist Volume 1 (Digital) $10.00
       Add to cart

   [svg%3E] [footer-logo.png]
     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store

   Footer Menu

   © 2025, All Rights Reserved.
   Go to Top

   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)

   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
