   #StyleZeitgeist » Feed StyleZeitgeist » Comments Feed StyleZeitgeist »
   The Best Theory of Why People Buy Fashion Was Written 125 Years Ago
   Comments Feed JSON oEmbed (JSON) oEmbed (XML)

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5N88NH9V

   Skip to content
   Facebook page opens in new windowInstagram page opens in new window
   Search:
   ____________________
   Go!
   $0.00

   View CartCheckout
     * No products in the cart.

   Subtotal: $0.00

   View CartCheckout

   StyleZeitgeist
   Counterculture - Fashion and Culture Magazine
   StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist StyleZeitgeist
     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store
     * Academy

     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store
     * Academy

The Best Theory of Why People Buy Fashion Was Written 125 Years Ago

   By Eugene Rabkin Fashion, Features/Op-Ed Feb 7, 2024
   Tags: Fashionop-ed

   Much ink has been spilled through the decades on theories - cultural,
   economic, behavioral - about how we consume fashion. Some have their
   merits, others don't. But no theory has come close to accurately
   describing it than that of the American economist Thorstein Veblen.

   In 1899, Veblen published a book titled The Theory of the Leisure Class
   that aimed to offer to the American economists, at the time obsessed
   with mathematic efficiency, a different theory of why people engage in
   consumption.

   With this book, that eventually took on a life of its own outside of
   the narrow academic circles by morphing into a sociological study,
   Veblen was pointing out to his colleagues that they were making a
   serious mistake in not considering the behavioral and cultural aspects
   of consumption. To him most consumption was status-driven, and
   therefore absolutely irrational in its rationale. The gist of his
   argument was this; in the first degree consumption is driven by the
   rich - the leisure class - who acquire markers of status in order to
   signal their wealth, and the rest of society consumes in order to
   emulate their behavior. This goes for everything from houses, to cars,
   to vacations, and of course, fashion. Veblen coined the term for what
   the leisure class does - conspicuous consumption - that is still widely
   used. As for the rest, their behavior is classified as aspirational
   consumption. The two are closely related cousins.

   Fashion was the only consumption category to which Veblen devoted an
   entire chapter. To him fashion was the most obvious avenue for
   conspicuous consumption, because fashion is on constant display. He
   postulated that in contemporary society being wealthy on its own is not
   enough, and that one must constantly signal their wealth in order to
   signal their status. And while houses and their interiors, yachts, and
   art on your walls are important signifiers of wealth, they do not have
   the same signaling power as clothes do, because they are not constantly
   seen by others. You cannot wear your art to a restaurant (though these
   days you can put it on Instagram, which has been one of the biggest
   drivers of speeding up consumption for household goods). Whereas before
   the industrial revolution and the rise of the modern city the rich
   largely socialized in private, in Veblen's time their spheres of
   socialization increasingly shifted to public places, requiring constant
   signaling of status, which made the clothes ever more important.

   But consuming luxury fashion, according to Veblen, is simply the first
   step on the ladder of providing "evidence of pecuniary success." One
   must not only consume it, but do it often, because conspicuous
   consumption is driven by conspicuous waste. It is not enough for the
   rich to simply buy, the true display of pecuniary (that is monetary)
   strength lies in the fact that they can discard their perfectly fine
   clothes at a regular interval in order to buy new ones. This is really
   what drives the artificial and arbitrary changes in fashion, though in
   order to hide this fact, "The law of conspicuous waste guides
   consumption in apparel, as in other things, chiefly at the second
   remove, by shaping the canons of taste and decency." In other words,
   Bernard Arnault does not tell you that you must buy LVMH products often
   - the magazines, beholden to advertisers, and your peers, influenced by
   the magazines, will tell you that.

   And because the rest of society is driven by aspirational consumption,
   over the last 125 years the mentality of conspicuous waste has
   percolated down to accepted social norms, such as the taboo on wearing
   the same outfit twice a week. This emulative behavior is what drives
   fast fashion, by allowing the middle class to emulate the conspicuous
   waste mentality of the rich (see the numerous SHEIN haul videos on
   YouTube and TikTok).

   But conspicuous consumption and conspicuous waste exist in the service
   of the final goal of the rich; to signal that the person who is
   engaging in both does not have to work for a living ("conspicuous
   leisure"). This is why the color white (and other light colors), for
   example, is considered part of the uniform of the wealthy - no sensible
   person engaged in any productive activity (or even one who has to ride
   the New York City subway) would wear a color that can easily be
   stained. White is a color that requires to be chauffeured.

   The law of conspicuous leisure has also shaped other canons of taste.
   For example, in earlier times it was considered uncouth for the members
   of the upper classes to have a tan, because that's what peasants got by
   working outdoors. This changed in the 20th Century with the rise of the
   white collar worker. All of a sudden a tan signified that you did not
   spend countless hours at the office but had money and time to lay on a
   beach (presumably by taking a private plane to St. Tropez). Today, the
   toned body is the main marker of conspicuous leisure, because its
   possessor signals that they have significant time and money to devote
   oneself to wellness, the new religion of the rich.

   Because the rich are emulated by the rest, they constantly have to move
   the goalposts of what constitutes a status marker, so as not to be
   confused with the rest. To illustrate, let's bring it back to fashion.
   Luxury fashion used to be the purview of the rich. In Veblen's time,
   for a rich woman changing outfits was a full time job (I once toured a
   Vanderbilt mansion and the guide told us that the women vacationing
   there changed outfits eight times a day.) But through the emulative
   process, eventually luxury fashion has become thoroughly ingrained in
   the middle class (the poor buy the knockoffs), and so the rich had to
   shift how they dress. Enter athleisure.

   The fact that athleisure is now worn largely outside of its intended
   purpose - exercise - hints at the cult of wellness. But it began even
   more subtly; athleisure first was worn by rich women outside because it
   signaled roughly the following statement, "Oh, I just decided to grab a
   coffee / brunch after my yoga class around the corner from my SoHo loft
   / Park Avenue apartment / Beverly Hills mansion." By wearing athleisure
   these women signaled that while any dentist's wife from New Jersey can
   now afford a logoed Gucci belt, she cannot afford expensive
   real-estate. By now of course the middle class has caught on, and even
   those who, as evidenced by their body size, cannot engage in wellness
   because they have to work for a living, can engage in status-emulating
   behavior by stretching Lycra over their ample curves. (The rich are
   quietly moving the goalposts again, hence all the talk of "quiet
   luxury," as per Veblenian law of the second remove.)

   The only thing Veblen has not foreseen - how could he, in 1899 - is the
   new class of the rich, and that is the entertainers. Money caché is now
   often matched by cultural caché, and the former now often comes from
   the latter. (W. David Marx explores this phenomenon in his recent book,
   Status and Culture, where he distinguishes between financial capital
   and cultural capital.) And the mechanisms for dissemination of status
   signaling have changed and amplified due to social media. This is how
   you get the celebrity-fashion industrial complex and Pharrell designing
   Louis Vuitton menswear. But though the makeup of the classes to be
   emulated and the machinery for signaling status may have changed, the
   essential principles for consuming fashion postulated by Veblen have
   remained the same. To illustrate, I will leave you with this 2019
   masterpiece from GQ, "The Enormous Appetites of Lil Uzi Vert."

Author: Eugene Rabkin

   https://www.sz-mag.com/

   Eugene Rabkin is the founder of stylezeitgeist.com. He has contributed
   articles on fashion and culture to The Business of Fashion, Vogue
   Russia, Buro247, the Haaretz Daily Newspaper, and other publications.
   He has taught critical writing and fashion writing courses at Parsons
   the New School for Design.

Post navigation

   PreviousPrevious post:StyleZeitgeist Podcast: Paris Fashion Week F/W 24
   Men's With Philippe PourhashemiNextNext post:FFORME FALL / WINTER 2024
   WOMEN'S

Latest Posts from Category

   Unpacking Kering's Earnings
   Apr 23, 2025

   OUTLAWS: Fashion Renegades Of Leigh Bowery's 1980s London
   Apr 23, 2025

   StyleZeitgeist Podcast: What Luxury? with Robert Williams
   Apr 17, 2025

   Duran Lantink's Appointment to Gaultier Proves That Contemporary
   Fashion Is a Simulation
   Apr 15, 2025

   Trump, the Unwitting Sustainability Warrior
   Apr 11, 2025

   StyleZeitgeist Podcast: NEMESIS with Emily Segal
   Apr 4, 2025

   [svg%3E] [footer-logo.png]
     * Magazine
     * Forum
     * Store

   Footer Menu

   © 2025, All Rights Reserved.
   Go to Top

   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
