
   [ ]

     *
     *
     *

   All Rights ReservedView Non-AMP Version
   Type your search query and hit enter: 1___________________
   ____________________ Search

   Fashion

PARIS MENS FALL / WINTER 2025 SHOWROOM REPORT


   Last year I promised to lean into supporting smaller brands, and I have
   valiantly tried to visit as many showrooms as possible, so much so that
   I have not seen much of Paris this time. Each season I receive an
   avalanche of invitations, but I am just one person, so I am taking an
   opportunity to offer my apologies to those I was not able to visit. In
   general, many of the brands I've seen have stuck to their guns. This is
   fine, but it also does not provide much food for thought. Quite a few
   are struggling, but I hope that now that the so-called luxury is in
   tailspin, it's their time to come in and offer a superior product at a
   better price. There is certainly a contingent of men and women ready
   for it. And I see it as my job to connect these brands with a new
   audience. So, here it is.

   SONG FOR THE MUTE

   It's always nice to see a brand that started in the forum days of
   StyleZeitgeist becoming a resounding success noticed by the industry,
   as evidenced from its whimsical collaborations with Adidas Originals
   (another big collab is in the works, but I cannot say what it is).
   Though STFM has moved away from its SZ roots, it continues to put out
   thoughtful collections. This one, called Sunflower, had STFM's usual
   mix of lightness and substance. One of the ideas was to recreate a
   feeling of that rare vintage fine that one holds on to dearly, and I
   thought it worked well.

   A.PRESSE

   This new kid on the block in the long venerable line of Japanese
   menswear brands that fuse American workwear and Japanese craft has
   quickly made waves, and the level of obsession on the part of the
   menswear geeks when A.PRESSE is mentioned borders on mania. There is a
   reason for such a fervent reaction - in terms of quality of
   construction and finish it is IM.PRESSIVE. I love seeing such attention
   to quality channeled by a product brand rather than traditional luxury
   brand. All of A.PRESSE's fabrics come from Japan, except the sumptuous
   Spanish leathers. A particular favorite of mine was a silk / cotton
   collarless bomber jacket that was absolutely beautiful in its shape and
   feel. The leather jackets were also top notch, especially a trucker
   version.

   Nicolas Andreas Taralis

   I have not seen Nicolas in a long time due to my maddening Paris
   schedule, so it was lovely to catch up and see his collection in real
   life. NAT has been going high-end, which he sees as the only way to
   remain afloat as luxury goes mass market and continues to dilute its
   quality. Many of the garments he presented will be painstakingly
   produced at a small factory in Italy in editions of 15. The
   deconstructed tailoring he presented was especially brilliant, with
   unfinished fully canvased construction, and basting stitch left over
   that you can play with as you see fit. If I had any qualms is that some
   of the oversized garments were really humongous. I think we are about
   to start moving away from the cartoonish hugeness back to a silhouette
   that has a relationship with human anatomy, which I welcome.

   K'ANG

   This brand, from a former apprentice at m.a.+ and Deepti, has come on
   my radar last year and has become one of my most exciting finds. It is
   rare to see a young designer present a collection so accomplished. His
   tailoring is top notch and possesses a subtle edge, as evidenced in a
   black leather trench with metal buttons and an opening on the top of
   the back that gives it just the right amount of oomph. Add to it a
   matching helmet and you have an outfit that turns heads. Leave it out,
   and you have a garment that is calm and assured. One of the highlights
   of this collection were fabrics that went under a metal roller covered
   with eroding chemicals. Depending on the fabric, the effects were more
   or less subtle, but always cool. There was also a long deconstructed
   two-layer coat I have my eye on.

   THE VIRIDI-ANNE AND DEVOA

   Last year I reconnected with these two Japanese OG StyleZeitgeist
   stalwarts who show at the same showroom, so I am putting both under the
   same heading, even though the brands are different.

   The Viridi-Anne continues leaning into a tech direction, which makes
   sense for the techwear-obsessed Japan, but it's keeping things goth in
   its mostly black offerings. I liked the roomy jackets and pants that
   were on offer, as well as an adjustable carabiner belt.

   I was less convinced by Devoa, a brand I usually love. Its customary
   attention to construction was missing in favor of details that seemed
   superfluous. But I did love a part of the collection that was made with
   Faliero Sarti fabrics. For those who don't know, Faliero Sarti is a
   venerable Italian fabric house, which doubles as the unofficial
   supplier of scarves for the StyleZeitgeist universe.

   I'll add one last thing - it's gratifying to see brands like TVA and
   Devoa keep their pricing honest. Some of the wholesale prices seemed
   too good to be true. If you are looking to dress well and not spend
   stratospheric amounts of money, look to those two.

   LABEL UNDER CONSTRUCTION

   Another OG StyleZeitgeist brand has come back to Paris quietly with its
   excellent knitwear offering. These days Luca Laurini is keeping things
   simple, sticking to the tried and true not-so-basic knits he has built
   his brand on.

   SETCHU

   Satoshi Kuwata is a rare breed of a designer who deserves the
   mainstream attention he's been getting. He put on a show at Pitti Uomo,
   but it is the intimate, one-on-one experience with his thoughtful
   clothes that is the crux of what he does. Not only his fabrics are top
   notch, but his construction methods are brilliant in the way they give
   each garment transformative powers, therefore also giving the wearer
   more agency over the clothes. The new versions of his signature
   foldable origami blazers were feats of sartorial engineering, and even
   the simple sweatshirts with zippers running all through their sides
   were alluring.

   TAKAHIROMIYASHITATheSoloist.

   I was happy to see the brand back in Paris after a five-year hiatus.
   Although I've been able to follow TheSoloist closely, because I have
   either ended up in Japan at the time they were showing, or I would see
   a selection at their New York showroom, it was good to see the brand's
   complete offerings. For this collection, Takahiro Miyashita imagined a
   band, The Black and White Realism, and the color palette fitted the
   name. I particularly liked the fake fur lined bombers and extra-long
   coats whose long tails could be wrapped around one's legs. There was
   also a beautiful black kilt, a garment that I am particularly partial
   to.

   m.a.+ by Maurizio Amadei

   It's nice to see StyleZeitgeist brands slowly coming back to Paris, and
   m.a.+ was in top form here. The brand has built its uniform, on which
   it subtly iterates and adds to. This time its signature aviator jacket
   was updated in a beautiful stretchy fabric, and there were excellent
   long drape coats. Leather continues to be an indispensable part of the
   brand, and the boots, belts, and bags looked as desirable as ever.

   Forme d'Expression

   This brand has become my go to for relaxed tailoring for a reason -- it
   consistently hits it out of the park in terms of both the beauty of its
   fabrics and in the forgiving yet streamlined fit it offers. There was a
   new variation of a long coat with two horizontally aligned buttons that
   made it look something in between a double-breasted and a
   single-breasted construction, and another long "priest" coat. I've been
   a 3/4, Edwardian fit diehard for years, but lately I've been attracted
   to longer volumes and these were absolutely fantastic.

   SONO

   One of my recent discoveries, SONO has forged its own path by providing
   relaxed clothing made of brilliant natural fabrics, minimally died and
   made entirely in the UK, France, or Italy. They don't tout their
   sustainability credentials, but everything they do comes as close to
   responsible production as possible. But the clothes are the point,
   sweaters in cushy wools, relaxed coats, and drawstring pants are
   seductive in their deceptive simplicity; this is the stuff you want to
   live in.

   JAN JAN VAN ESSCHE

   There was not much deviation in this JJVE collection in terms of
   shapes, but his work with Japanese fabrics continue to inspire quiet
   awe. In addition to those, Jan Jan has spent some time last year among
   Indian artisanal weavers and what he brought back was amazing; lovely
   linens made without a single watt of electricity used that in their
   unevenness bore the imprints of a human hand.

   STOVAIGH

   This Chinese brand was a new discovery. In its oversized tailoring it
   offers loosely defined Southeast Asian tradition filtered through a
   contemporary lens. The palette is earthy and the fabrics are developed
   in Japan from yarn to cloth specifically for the brand, and are dyed by
   artisans using whatever organic materials they happen to gather, from
   tea to flowers. Some of the buttons are made by a Chinese ceramic
   artisan, and they are small treasures in themselves. I think this brand
   will be a worthy addition to my future Paris trips.

   EMATYTE

   This shoemaker was my last but not least stop on the artisan express.
   Gabriele makes shoes, boots, and sneakers by hand himself from start to
   finish in his workshop in Tuscany. Their construction, including
   Goodyear and Norwegian welts, is top notch, and his aesthetic is lived
   in. I like that there are artisans out there that offer completely
   handmade product that stands outside of the usual polished #menswear
   set. EMATYTE is a testament to the fact that tradition need not be
   conservative.

   PARATRAIT

   My last showroom stop was one of Tokyo Fashion Award, an organization
   that supports young Japanese talent. It's always worth a stop to see
   whom they are championing, and this time I liked a newcomer called
   Paratrait. Just when you think that the country that has birthed
   Snowpeak, Nanamica, Daiwa Pier 39, And Wander, Descente (I can go on
   and on) cannot possibly produce a new take on techwear, Paratrait's mix
   of tech and fashion proves otherwise. I was particularly taken by long
   black parkas that were weatherproof but did not look so. A+.
   Share
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

   Eugene Rabkin

   Eugene Rabkin is the founder of stylezeitgeist.com. He has contributed
   articles on fashion and culture to The Business of Fashion, Vogue
   Russia, Buro247, the Haaretz Daily Newspaper, and other publications.
   He has taught critical writing and fashion writing courses at Parsons
   the New School for Design.
   Next Dolce & Gabbana at Grand Palais, Paris »
   Previous « MEN'S FALL / WINTER 2025 PARIS FASHION WEEK REPORT
   Published by
   Eugene Rabkin
   Jan 30, 2025 9:47 am

Recent Posts

     * Fashion

Superfine: Tailoring Black Style at the Met Museum in New York

   Superfine, an exhibition on Black dandyism which opens this Saturday at
   The Metropolitan Museum of...
   May 9, 2025
     * Fashion

Unpacking Kering's Earnings

   Today, Kering, the luxury conglomerate that owns Gucci, Yves Saint
   Laurent, Balenciaga, and Bottega Veneta,...
   Apr 23, 2025
     * Fashion

OUTLAWS: Fashion Renegades Of Leigh Bowery's 1980s London

   That burst of angry, youthful energy unleashed on London streets in
   1976 called punk indelibly...
   Apr 23, 2025
     * Fashion

StyleZeitgeist Podcast: What Luxury? with Robert Williams

   Apr 17, 2025
     * Fashion

Duran Lantink's Appointment to Gaultier Proves That Contemporary Fashion Is a
Simulation

   Today we woke up to the news that the up and coming designer Duran
   Lantink...
   Apr 15, 2025
     * Fashion

Trump, the Unwitting Sustainability Warrior

   Take a deep breath, and suspend your justified knee-jerk reaction at
   mentioning Trump before you...
   Apr 11, 2025

   All Rights ReservedView Non-AMP Version

     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
