
   [ ]

     *
     *
     *

   All Rights ReservedView Non-AMP Version
   Type your search query and hit enter: 1___________________
   ____________________ Search

   Fashion

MEN'S FALL / WINTER 2025 PARIS FASHION WEEK REPORT

   This January Paris greeted us with rain and more rain. In the seven
   days I saw sun only once - proof that god hates fashion. The weather
   put a damper on a season that was already decidedly mid. If fashion is
   supposed to reflect our culture, what it tells us is that our culture
   is mired in mediocrity. Note that I did not say that it was an awful
   season, nor am I particularly disappointed, which means that I got
   exactly what I expected - mids. Pretty much all the editors I've spoken
   with this season did not expect much either. We've capitulated to
   fashion in the say way the American left has capitulated to Trump. We
   shrug our shoulders because we know what to expect. We troop from one
   show to another without much joy and without much anticipation. We are
   tired; what was once fun is starting to look an awful lot like work.

   This season felt like it was my busiest ever, even though I've attended
   the least amount of shows - no Ann Demeulemeester, which is in
   perpetual limbo, no Yohji Yamamoto, where rappers are now preferred to
   editors, no Dries Van Noten, which is in transition - the showrooms
   made up for it. Fashion is now in a peculiar state - it seems like the
   conglomerates have never had so much power, making it virtually
   impossible to build an independent brand, and at the same time there
   are more brands than ever before. How are they all surviving is beyond
   me.

   My first show was Auralee, the newish kid on the Paris block, though
   the brand is turning ten this year. Ryota Iwai's lovely clothes hardly
   require a show, but a show has become an indispensable part of being on
   high fashion's radar. Looking at Auralee's output in a show format
   makes little sense, but here it is; it started out slowly and then
   built up to something more intricate, leather biker jackets under
   coats, puffers over suits, all in all a fine outing, thought not
   terribly exciting. The excitement happens in the showroom as you run
   your fingers over baby cashmere and the fine wools, and try on the
   clothes that feel both new and lived in and intimate.

   My next presentation was Lemaire, car number two on the quiet luxury
   express. The brand is riding high - according to a recent Business of
   Fashion article it's pulling in 100 million euros a year - and its
   newfound swagger was reflected in that of the models who sashayed with
   uncharacteristic, for Lemaire, confidence down the runway, layered in
   the brand's signature neutrals. Can a sexy librarian swagger? Perhaps.
   Broken down though, there wasn't much new to look at; same staples in a
   new mixture. I file Lemaire under a it-is-what-it-is rubric - the brand
   does not need to change much as its fan base grows around its
   tried-and-true offerings.
   AURALEE
   LEMAIRE
   (BUTTON)


   On Thursday morning I dropped by the Dries Van Noten presentation.
   Dries Van Noten is not a huge brand - these days one cannot be huge
   while selling clothes - and I imagine the mandate from Puig, its owner,
   is to grow it. It looks like the strategy is to grow DVN by making it
   look younger, which we already saw with the last, uncharacteristically
   bare skin-heavy show. As far as this men's presentation went, Julian
   Klausner, the brand's new creative director, clearly thinks that
   "young" means effeminate. This is a peculiar proposition in the age
   where an unprecedented number of young straight men are interested in
   fashion. Dries's man was self-assured and defined in broad enough
   strokes to appeal to a wide variety of customers. Klausner's
   proposition does not. One must wonder whether the example of Sebastian
   Meunier feminizing the Ann Demeulemeester man and alienating scores of
   brand's core clients in the process was not enough of an example - one
   next door, mind you - to give Dries Van Noten the brand pause.
   Apparently not. And one more thing; I am pretty confident that there
   are photographers other than the utterly predictable Willy Vanderperre
   out there. No wonder everything looks the same these days.

   Then it was off to the Rick Owens show. Set to the soundtrack of
   various iterations of David Bowie's "Heroes," Owens showed that
   savoir-faire need not be the exclusive preserve of the polished luxury
   houses. The braided leathers on the boots, the masterfully frayed edges
   of jeans, and short sleeve, high-necked tops made of layers of rubber
   were feats of sartorial achievement. I also loved - and I was in the
   minority there - the simplicity of the outerwear, where a few sweeping
   lines were enough to make a statement. The silhouette was all over the
   place - a best of - with cropped jackets and huge pants, with long
   coats over shorts, and leggings tucked into boots. The casting was
   strong, with several older men overshadowing the usual young whippets.
   And yet, somehow the show failed to truly move, the way Porterville did
   a year ago. Perhaps the difference between this show and that was the
   difference between the demanding but haunting "Warszawa" and the
   irresistible but easily digestible "Heroes."
   DRIES VAN NOTEN
   RICK OWENS
   (BUTTON)


   My once-a-day show regiment was broken Friday, the day of Comme. First
   it was Junya Watanabe, who failed to wow this time. His modern day
   cowboys and truck drivers were too literal and tiring. Our culture's
   pining for the good old days when men were men in the Wild West, as
   reflected in shows like the wildly successful Yellowstone and its
   various offshoots, watched by the subdued white-collar male whose
   spirit has withered long ago under the weight of his regimented life,
   is, frankly, embarrassing. This phenomenon is not new, but at least
   Fight Club was fun and had a whiff of counterculture to it, as did
   Watanabe's shows that were based on the likes of the Taxi Driver.

   It was Rei Kawakubo at Comme des Garçons that had something relevant to
   say this time, about the sickness and the absurdity of war. The spliced
   uniforms worked like a charm, as did the crazy shoes that turned
   upwards like a barrel of an unusable weapon. Mama put those guns into
   the ground with gusto.

   My first show on Saturday was Hermes, and it was as confident as ever.
   Some people find Hermes menswear underwhelming. I don't, but then, I
   don't look at Hermes menswear as fashion - I see at as simply
   beautiful, sumptuous, luxurious clothes. Do they need a show? Not
   really. What would work for Hermes menswear in a show is if it was
   styled up a bit to give it more energy.

   There was plenty of energy at Y-3. Once again, like so much this
   season, I looked at it through it-is-what-it-is lens. The best bits
   were Yamamoto's original silhouettes reworked as techwear. There was
   also another unnecessary Neighborhood collab, this one centered around
   motorcycle racing. It's main feature was lots of bold lettering; ok.

   The last show of the day was that of the Japanese brand Kolor. It was
   held in one of my favorite venues, the former Communist Party
   headquarters by Oscar Niemeyer. But instead of using its stunning main
   hall, as before, this time Junichi Abe stuck us in the brutalist
   basement. It was as if he was signaling something, and it was indeed,
   the end of his tenure at the brand that he founded. This was pretty
   shocking, and the new designer was announced two days after the show. I
   don't know what exactly happened, and no one else did either. Farewell,
   then, to a talented designer. As for the collection itself, it was
   fittingly timid for a coda.
   JUNYA WATANABE
   COMME DES GARÇONS
   (BUTTON)


   Could somebody, anybody, save this season? Enter Sacai. Few designers
   are as consistent and consistently good as Chitose Abe. Though it's
   evident that she thinks that she too needs pop-cultural crutches - this
   collection featured artwork from Where the Wild Things Are, the wildly
   popular children's book - the brilliant clothes stood on their own just
   fine, particularly the spliced two-tone trenches. But the fact that
   even the designer as talented as Abe relies on pop culture to move
   units speaks to the cultural moment we are in - where EVERYTHING is
   entertainment and kidults rule the world.

   I suppose this makes a neat circle; I started with culture and ended
   with it, too. And fashion is part of culture, and the reason I fell in
   love with it in the first place. But the culture that I fell for is
   largely gone, and so is fashion that was in dialogue with it. Except
   Undercover, which presented a showless collection based on experimental
   German and French bands like Faust and Heldon. Someone must carry the
   torch after all.

   The above is not an entirely fair ending, because I also attended Peter
   Copping's debut at Lanvin. But since it was really a co-ed outing
   tacked on at the end of the menswear season, I am treating it
   separately. As far as trial runs go it was fine. I'll start with the
   good - it's nice to see a creative director at the helm of a
   traditional French house who actually knows how to design. The
   womenswear was a testament to that, and there were outfits in there
   that clearly signaled skill and talent. Having said that, the first
   outing is also your first impression and no time to be timid,
   especially at the time when the industry segment Lanvin is in is in
   tailspin. The outfits that had edge, like several made of black boucle,
   were overshadowed by evening ensembles that would make Carolina Herrera
   proud. There is a way to do Parisian high bourgeois chic - the intended
   direction of the house - without making it look passé (see, Anthony
   Vaccarello's recent efforts at Saint-Laurent). And while there was
   coherence in Copping's womenswear, the menswear looked like an
   afterthought - a common disease of creative directors of big houses who
   still think that men don't care about fashion. It was all over the
   place and the best looks had a whiff of Dries Van Noten to them.
   Whether the faults of the debut are all with Copping is impossible to
   say - big brands are at the mercy of businesspeople, accountants,
   consultants, and merchandisers. But, for better or worse, it is the
   creative director that must own successes and failures of a house in
   the eyes of the public who can only judge by what's shown to them on
   the runway. I am still rooting for Copping and hoping for a stronger
   second outing.
   Share
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

   Eugene Rabkin

   Eugene Rabkin is the founder of stylezeitgeist.com. He has contributed
   articles on fashion and culture to The Business of Fashion, Vogue
   Russia, Buro247, the Haaretz Daily Newspaper, and other publications.
   He has taught critical writing and fashion writing courses at Parsons
   the New School for Design.
   Next PARIS MENS FALL / WINTER 2025 SHOWROOM REPORT »
   Previous « ZIGGY CHEN FALL / WINTER 2025 - PARIS
   Published by
   Eugene Rabkin
   Jan 29, 2025 11:10 am

Recent Posts

     * Fashion

Superfine: Tailoring Black Style at the Met Museum in New York

   Superfine, an exhibition on Black dandyism which opens this Saturday at
   The Metropolitan Museum of...
   May 9, 2025
     * Fashion

Unpacking Kering's Earnings

   Today, Kering, the luxury conglomerate that owns Gucci, Yves Saint
   Laurent, Balenciaga, and Bottega Veneta,...
   Apr 23, 2025
     * Fashion

OUTLAWS: Fashion Renegades Of Leigh Bowery's 1980s London

   That burst of angry, youthful energy unleashed on London streets in
   1976 called punk indelibly...
   Apr 23, 2025
     * Fashion

StyleZeitgeist Podcast: What Luxury? with Robert Williams

   Apr 17, 2025
     * Fashion

Duran Lantink's Appointment to Gaultier Proves That Contemporary Fashion Is a
Simulation

   Today we woke up to the news that the up and coming designer Duran
   Lantink...
   Apr 15, 2025
     * Fashion

Trump, the Unwitting Sustainability Warrior

   Take a deep breath, and suspend your justified knee-jerk reaction at
   mentioning Trump before you...
   Apr 11, 2025

   All Rights ReservedView Non-AMP Version

     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
